The government of Ghana has announced plans to develop Takoradi Port into an an oil and gas hub in the West Africa sub-region, following the government’s ongoing 3 year master plan. Mr Ken Ofori-Atta, Minister of Finance confirmed the reports during the presentation of the 2019 Budget and Economic Statement to Parliament in Accra, and said phase one of the dry bulk jetty with a a 600 meter wall has been completed and the second phase of an additional 200-metre quay wall will commence in 2019. Also read: Buhari orders construction of rail infrastructure in major seaports Operation and development of an on-dock container with a container quay of 16-meter draft has also begun. The multi-purpose terminal container will be of great help in accommodating bigger vessels. The master plan developed in 2014 intends to improve the building additional breakwater, dredging of access channel, construction of new berths including a bauxite, clinker and limestone jetty, manganese, landslide side infrastructure and building of new offshore oil base. Reclaiming land, a floating facility, a shipyard, a 300-meter quay and fabrication yards for light and heavy industries are also some of the plans put together in the master plan. The Ghana ports and Harbors Authority has viewed the oil and gas opportunity since 2007. The authority says that exploring the resource and making the port a service hub for black gold industry is a sure way to get the port back to its vibrant feet after the port lost out on the transit trade. The development of Takoradi port as an oil and gas logistics center is as a result of a discovery made by Tullow of an offshore oil and gas. To create more land, dredging back fill will be carried out at an established oil and gas free zone oilfields service hub. Takoradi which is Ghana’s oldest commercial seaport imports 30% of wheat, petroleum products and containerized cargo. 70 % of exports is made up of bauxite, forest products, mining equipment, bagged and cocoa beans.  