After 20 successful editions of Buildexpo in Kenya and Tanzania, East Africa’s largest building and construction fair has now ventured into the Rwandan market. In partnership with RDB(Rwanda Development Board) the 2nd  edition of Buildexpo in Rwanda will provide an international business platform by enabling global investment opportunities and business. Buildexpo Africa is the only show with the widest range of the latest technology in construction machinery, building material machines, mining machines, construction vehicles and construction equipment. Countries dominant this year are Germany, China, India, Saudi Arabia, UK, USA and Italy with several leading international brands looking to build a solid foundation in the East African market. Held at the newly built Kigali Convention Centre ( KCC ) which is one of the most modern and expensive buildings in Africa. The facility constructed by the joint efforts of leading Chinese, German and Turkish companies at a cost of USD 500 million, is in line with Rwanda’s endeavour in becoming the Meeting, Incentives Conferences and Exhibitions hub in the region. It has a net floor area of 32,200m2, a total of 18 versatile meeting rooms including a state-of-the-art of auditorium. Rwanda has one of the fastest growing economies in East Africa. The country entered a period of high economic growth in 2006, and the following year managed to register 8% economic growth, a record it has sustained since, turning it into one of the fastest-growing economies in Africa. Rwanda’s ongoing economic recovery is construction-led and is set to continue. The Government of Rwanda has attached a very high importance to promoting construction projects and has increased government investment in infrastructure expansion and modernization. Almost a tenth of Rwanda’s annual budget is committed to transport and other infrastructure. The country has a population of 11.8 million people and a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of USD 8.096 billion dollars. Rwanda’s economy flourished by an average of 8 percent annually from 2002 to 2012, and then 6.9 percent growth in 2015 and 5.9 percent growth in 2016. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects Rwanda’s GDP to grow between 6-7 percent in 2017 and 2018. There are many clear big picture economic signs that lead us to believe that Rwanda is the next country to target for conducting business. Here are some of the signs:- Leading sectors in Rwanda include energy, agriculture, trade, hospitality and financial services. Rwanda’s economy is essentially rural and heavily dependent on agriculture but they have big plans to change things. Strong and steady growth in the services sector particularly construction and tourism have contributed immensely to overall economic growth. Construction and real estate sectors are key sectors and potential drivers of future economic growth in Rwanda, mainly due to the high demand for residential and commercial buildings for the business community. Buildexpo will bring you exhibitors from over 28 countries that are the finest in infrastructure development, with over hundreds of products, equipment and machinery on display. Over the years, the Buildexpo has grown to cater to the demands of not just the Kenyan market, but of the whole region of East Africa. It has been projected as the ideal forum for international companies to showcase their products and services to the huge market. Visitors from across East Africa, and surrounding regions are invited directly in collaboration with regional trade bodies in Kenya, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Uganda, Somalia, Mozambique and Congo. In a major statement, Ms. Clare Akamanzi, CEO, Rwanda Development Board said that The Government of Rwanda is privileged to partner with Expogroup to host 2nd Buildexpo Africa 2019 in Kigali, Rwanda. This event is a vital part of our mission to showcase Rwanda as a key destination to do business. Rwanda has a special fascination for visitors; we are delighted to welcome all participants to this event. The Government of Rwanda is committed to working with Expogroup to ensure that the exhibition is successfully hosted. So, if you are in the Building & Construction industry, here’s your chance to meet the best in the market at one place and time!  