Over 88 capital road projects in Nigeria that were captured in 2017 budget nationwide have been completed. This is according to the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA). The Head of Communication and Public Relations (FERMA) Mrs Maryam Sanusi confirmed the statement and stated that other 66 road projects that were also captured in 2017 budget are presently at 50% completion. Mrs Maryam Sanusi listed some of the completed road projects to include those in Adamawa and general maintenance and repairs of Bauchi-Ningi in Bauchi State, rehabilitation of Biu-WanDali road in Borno, Garkida-Gombi highway. Also read: FERMA commences direct labour works along Abuja-Keffi Road Other roads that set for rehabilitation are;Awe-Iwo federal road in Oyo State, Benin-Abraka road in Edo; construction of feeder road from Iyah-Obelle in Kogi, rehabilitation of Ribah-Diri-Rijau road in Kebbi State, among others. Sanusi added that the agency was making efforts to ensure that all the roads mapped out for maintenance were completed as at when due.  “The assurance is that as long as adequate funds are available, the agency will ensure that all roads mapped out for maintenance are completed. All Federal Trunk’s `A’ roads, were the agency’s main focus.These roads are major contributors to the socio-economic and political development of our country. They carried about 90% of total volume of transportation of goods and services,” said the Head of Communication. “Aside budgetary allocation, the additional sources of funding as captured in the agency’s Act are yet to be explored. The agency rely on budgetary allocation for its roads maintenance activities,’’ she added Sanusi however called on Nigerians to use the roads responsibly and patiently with consideration for other road users. “I will want Nigerians to know that the road is an asset we use to access our communities and work places. I want Nigerians to know that using the roads responsibly allows free movement of traffic,” said Sanusi. “Nigerians should be patient with FERMA because we know the importance of roads. We are on a tremendous transformation drive as far as road maintenance is concerned,’’ she added.