Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Eng. Isack Kamwele has directed the Tanzania National Roads Agency (Tanroads) to supervise construction activities of all airports in the country with the aim of attracting more foreign investors and tourists for national economic growth, on top of other benefits. To enforce his directives, the Minister during his tour of the Terminal Three of Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA), issued a seven-day ultimatum to the Dodoma-based Msalato International Airport consultant to submit all documents to (Tanroads). “We want precisely, perfect and timely accomplished work in all airports. The Agency is capable of doing the work, let it deal with construction activities, including fences,” he said. Also read: Construction of terminal three at JNIA 68% complete Eng. Isack affirmed that the government has been implementing the Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) manifesto by improving air transport through renovating and constructing new airports national wide and purchasing of new aircrafts. The Minister revealed to the public that the modern JNIA’s Terminal Three airport was over 85% complete and will begin operations in May, next year. It was further noted that the new terminal is set to accommodate a total of 6.5 million passengers annually, more than twice the capacity of terminal two whose capacity is about 2.5 million passengers and capable of accommodating over 11 large aircrafts at once, with ability to carry between 300 and 400 passengers each. The Tanzania National Roads Agency (TANROADS) was established on 1st July, 2000 by an order published in the Government Gazette, Notice No. 293 of 2000 under Section 3(1) of the Executive Agencies Act No. 30 of 1997, with the expectation of witnessing a significant improvement in road maintenance and development with respect to quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The Agency is responsible for the management of 35,000 Km of roads made up of 12,786 Km of trunk roads and 22,214 Km of regional roads according to the Roads Act No. 13 of 2007 and subsequent reclassification up to June 2015.