Steel and Tube Industries is one of the leading and most reputable manufacturers of steel products in Uganda. The company was incorporated in 2003 starting off with the bulk manufacture of steel tubes and plates. The company has over the years grown exponentially expanding its operations dealing with some products ranging from Roof products, Hot Rolled products, Wire products, and Trade products to Stainless Steel Tanks and consequently widening its base of operations by opening outlets countrywide. Steel & Tube is equipped with state-of-the-art machinery with an annual capacity of 300,000 MT to produce a wide range of quality products, thus, positioning itself as a favorite supplier for the construction and building industry. All the products undergo tremendous testing in fully equipped laboratories and are certified by Uganda National Bureau of Standards, ISO and other internationally accredited bodies. Known as the pioneer of the 1stMat Tile Sheet in the Ugandan market, Steel & Tube also produces galvanized iron sheets, roof tile sheets, pre-painted sheets and all other accessories like Ridges, Valleys, End Covers and Expanded Metal. The sheets are durable even under adverse weather conditions and are uniquely customized to fit the buyer’s exact specifications, helps to cut down costs and minimize waste. These are manufactured using fully automated machines ensuring that each pipe and bar has maximum strength for its use while exceeding leading international standards. These products include Hollow Sections (round, square, rectangular), Fascia boards, Bottle sections, Z-Purlin and Mild Steel plates. Steel & Tube introduced the first ever branded S-Wire Nails and Ribbed BRC in the Ugandan market and also manufactures and supplies: Welded Mesh, Chain Link, Barbed wire, Galvanized wire and Binding Wire. The company also prides itself in pioneering the manufacture of the first stainless steel tanks and grain silos in Uganda. These products are made from stainless steel material, which automatically promotes them to be; rust-free, fire resistant and lightweight with a lifespan of 50 years. Besides, the products are good for health and environmentally friendly. The company has provided steel products to numerous local and international notable projects including; the Karuma Dam, Isimba Dam, Entebbe airport terminal expansion, Arena mall, Northern bypass, to mention but a few. Their motto to produce quality products that do not compromise quality while exceeding both local and international standards has allowed them to get demand from Fabricators, engineering entities, builders of commercial buildings and homeowners. This genuinely paints a picture of a company that is focused on revolutionizing the supply of steel products in the region. Like any business, the company has experienced a few setbacks like the flooding of the market with substandard products at low prices, unresolved political conflicts in the region directly impacting negatively on market growth, fluctuation of the dollar and other currencies, which subsequently affect the stocking of raw materials. Notwithstanding the challenges, the company is fueled by its vision to ultimately become the leading and most reliable manufacturer and supplier of steel products in the African region. Pointing out some positive emerging trends in the industry include; implementation of the East African political and economic integration, Discovery of oil reserves in Uganda and other parts of the region, increased rural to urban migration, which increases the demand for housing units and office space, among others. The increased influx of Foreign Direct Investment, especially from East Asia also raises big hopes for a bright future for the steel industry, not only in Uganda but Africa, in general.