Bobcat has launched TL43.80HF telehandler in the Middle East and Africa for heavy lift handling applications such as in manufacturing, building materials, warehousing, quarrying and mining. With the new TL43.80HF, Bobcat now offers a range of fifteen different rigid frame telehandler models, covering maximum lifting capacities between 2.6 and 4.3 tonne and maximum lifting heights from six to 18 m. “At Bobcat, for over 60 years, we have been constantly innovating the market – always developing new machines for customers’ needs. The new TL43.80HF is no exception to this legacy as it completes our range of telehandlers and ensures customers can benefit from unmatched loading productivity and lift capacity. Bobcat machines are made for tough jobs, whilst still providing all the agility and versatility any application would require,” said Olivier Traccucci, Bobcat telehandler senior product manager. Unlike any other manufacturer on the market, all Bobcat telehandlers are covered by a three-year/3,000 hour warranty as standard, with the option of extending the warranty to five-year/5,000 hours. All Bobcat telehandlers are designed and produced at the company’s plant in Pontchâteau, France. Thanks to a high lift capacity of 4.3 tonnes and a maximum lift height of almost eight metres, the TL43.80HF is a compact telehandler offering an impressive package, which brings together robustness, rough terrain ability and ease of use for the operator in the same machine. The very high stability of the TL43.80HF is due to the box welded frame, the low load centre, the long wheel base and the new massive rear counterweight, allowing Bobcat to minimize the overall dimensions of the machine, resulting in a width of only 2.3 m and a length of less than five metres from the rear to the fork face. Together with a short turning radius of just 3.71 metres, this new Bobcat telehandler is a very manoeuvrable machine, a particularly useful feature when it comes to working in confined environments. The rough terrain capability of the TL43.80HF has also been optimized for applications such as working and digging in piles of materials with the incorporation of new heavy-duty Dana Spicer axles with limited slip differential and the outstanding tractive force available of up to 90% of the machine weight. In addition, the TL43.80HF offers as standard automatic functions that allow the operator to focus entirely on the work at hand, such as boom cushioning, the parking brake and the reversible fan which helps to keep the cooling system (radiator) clean in dusty environments. As in all Bobcat telehandlers, the new TL43.80HF has as standard many smart functions to optimize work on site including a speed limiter system that controls speed regardless of the engine RPM; boom speed adjustments and the Eco mode which can provide a fuel saving of up to 15%. The TL43.80HF also provides an ideal solution for the heavy-duty, high-productivity segment of the agricultural market, taking lift capacity, lifting height and breakout force to unprecedented levels in this area. It is available with a choice of three different AGRI packs for the farming market meeting different levels of expectation in terms of ease of use and level of comfort.