HPE has added to its Africa’s range of Hyundai Earth moving Equipment by introducing the robust R260LC-9S crawler excavator, which is now available to the Southern Africa market. “Notable features of this series include advanced engine technology for high productivity, fuel efficiency and low emissions; computer aided power for optimum control of the machine and a high-strength operator cab, with exceptional visibility for greater safety on site,” explains Alex Ackron, managing director of HPE Africa. “The re-designed hydraulic system ensures fast, smooth and precise control. Advanced hydraulic technologies offer improved pump flow, which minimizes fuel consumption and the auto boom-swing priority function delivers maximum performance. Ground-line access to components enables easy maintenance, minimizing downtime of the machine.” Hyundai 9S series excavators are fitted with carefully selected components, designed for extended service life. Bushings have long-life lubrication intervals of 250 hours; hydraulic filters offer a service life of at least 1 000 hours and hydraulic oil offers 2 000 hours of service. Efficient cooling systems and integrated pre-heated systems extend service intervals and minimize operating costs. For greater durability, the x-leg type centre frame of the undercarriage is integrally welded, with reinforced box-section track frames. Lubricated rollers, idlers, track adjusters with shock absorbing springs and sprockets and a track chain with double or triple grouser shoes, form part of the robust undercarriage. All buckets are welded with high-strength steel, and booms and arms are welded with a low-stress, full-box section design. The new Hyundai Hi-Mate system enables users to remotely track and monitor this machine’s performance. This advanced telematics system provides detailed reports of individual machines and a fleet’s working summary, supplying relevant information that is critical in preventative maintenance programmes and considerably reduces downtime. Hyundai R260LC-9S excavators are suitable for efficient operation in civil engineering, mining, aggregates, construction and plant hire industries. HPE Africa is the sole distributor in Southern Africa of Hyundai earth moving equipment, as well as Soosan hydraulic hammers and McCloskey crushing and screening units. The company offers a technical advisory, support and maintenance service. 