BMG’s Motoline solar inverters for water pumps have been designed for dependable use in agricultural irrigation and water feed systems, for rural domestic and municipal water supply, as well as for ponds and dams. “All solar powered systems require a solar inverter to convert direct current (DC) generated by solar panels or other alternative sources, into alternating current (AC) for use in industrial, commercial and residential applications. BMG’s Motoline P19000-S Solar series inverters for photo voltaic (PV) water pumps have integrated Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) algorithms, which support accurate tracking of the PV output, to ensure the best possible power output is achieved,” explains Mick Baugh, electronics sales manager, BMG’s electro mechanical division. “Other high performance features of these solar inverters include dry-run protection, tank water level control and a dual AC and DC supply mode. This series supports AC input connectivity, in addition to the DC input from a PV system, allowing the AC input to feed the drive when the PV supply is limited. A clear LED display indicates the real-time situation and system parameters and the RS485 remote control system enhances the flexibility of the system.” he adds. Motoline P19000 Solar inverters have built-in protection and diagnostic mechanisms to provide full electronic protection to the motor and pump system, minimizing maintenance requirements and extending the service life of the system. BMG has made a substantial investment at its BMG World facility in Johannesburg, to ensure assembly, stock holdings and technical support are on a par with pristine global standards. Functional operations at BMG World include a 308 000 m³ product warehouse and distribution centre for the company’s entire product range of more than 300 000 line items and a manufacturing centre and general engineering workshop. There are also specialist assembly and repair workshops for drives, conveyors, hydraulics and pneumatic, as well as electric motors, electronics, gaskets, lubrication systems and filtration. This facility enables BMG to continue to provide high levels of operating efficiency and service delivery, in line with the continued growth of the business. A team of technicians, with extensive experience in gearing, offers a technical advisory and support service, tailored to meet the precise specifications of contractors, designers and the end-user.