HİDROMEK, which is one of the world’s top 50 machinery manufacturers and exports to 84 countries, will exhibit its products that steer the sector at the Bauma Conexpo Africa Fair, organized in Johannesburg, South Africa. HİDROMEK is planning to meet with its users in South African Market during the fair to be held between 13-16 March. HİDROMEK, which adds its 40 years of experience with know-how, and has proved its power of product design with international awards it has received, will draw the attention of leading companies in the sector to its products at the Bauma Conexpo Africa Fair, which is particularly the meeting point of the construction and mining sectors in the African market. HİDROMEK will exhibit its backhoe loaders, crawler excavators and motor graders at the fair. The Bauma Conexpo Africa Fair, one of the sector’s leading fairs, was held in 2015. 616 companies from 75 countries participated, more than 14 thousand visitors visited the fair and great numbers of business contacts were realized at the fair in 2015. HİDROMEK, which has been the market leader in Turkey for the last nine years for backhoe loader sales and for the last six years for hydraulic excavator sales, manufactures excavators, loaders, hydraulic excavators and motor graders. HİDROMEK will exhibit its range of backhoe loaders, crawler excavators and motor graders at Bauma Conexpo Africa Fair. The compact size of the machine, ability to turn 360 degrees on its own axis, ease of loading and ability to use with different attachments make HMK 62 SS ideal for urban constructions and agricultural applications. HMK 102B Alpha, which performs efficiently and with great performance under the toughest conditions, attracts attention with its low fuel consumption and solidity. Maximum efficiency is obtained in rough terrain with HMK 102B Alpha. Meanwhile, HMK 102B Alpha provides a comfortable environment for the operator even under in hardest working conditions. Design award-winning Gen Series excavators, which are designed for heavy working conditions and longevity, are distinguished with their low fuel consumption and durability. With OPERA (HİDROMEK Operator Interface), the operator feels comfortable and is able to use the machine easily, HMK MG 431 with its high performance blade at a variety of operations, from leveling to scraping, high bank cuts and digging. HİDROMEK, a globally known manufacturer of construction machinery, was founded in Ankara in 1978. Hasan Basri Bozkurt, the founder and current board chairman, started with the production of attachments for agricultural tractors. This initiative was moved further in the following years and the first construction machine ever designed by Turkish engineers was produced. The product range was expanded in time, which led to the growth of HİDROMEK; today HİDROMEK employs around 1900 employees. Excavators, loaders, hydraulic excavators, and motor graders are manufactured in six production facilities including 4 factories in Ankara, 1 factory in İzmir and 1 factory in Thailand. The new production facility located on an area of 1 million m2 in Ankara has been continuing. Exporting to more than 70 countries in 5 continents, HİDROMEK performs the management of international authorized dealers and provides sales and after sales services through international sales and after sales service centers such as HİDROMEK WEST in Barcelona, Spain; HİDROMEK RUSSIAN in Krasnodar, Russia and HİDROMEK JAPAN in Sagamihara, Japan. Creating the difference in design of construction machinery, HİDROMEK has crowned its accomplishment with many awards. As of today, HİDROMEK is the winner of totally 13 design awards, 11 of which are internationally prestigious. HİDROMEK is the first and only Turkish machinery manufacturer, who has been included in the “YellowTable” list of the media institution KHL Group that provides information to the whole world in respect of construction machinery and sets a reference for the whole industry; the list ranges the largest construction equipment manufacturers in the world. HİDROMEK has been ranked in this list for the last 5 years. As per figures declared by IMDER (The Construction Equipment Distributors and Manufacturers Association of Turkey), HİDROMEK has been the market leader in Turkey for the last nine years for backhoe loader sales and for the last six years for excavator sales.