Rwanda and Tanzania have agreed to review the design of Isaka-Kigali standard gauge railway. The two countries have dropped the proposed use of diesel engines in favour of electric locomotives. According to experts, electric trains are more efficient and environmental friendly as opposed to diesel trains. Rwanda’s Minister of State in charge of Transport, Jean de Dieu Uwihanganye, and Prof. Makame M. Mbarawa, the Minister for Works, Transport and Communication of Tanzania, signed yet another agreement leading to the implementation phase of the project. However, the proposed time-frame for ground breaking of the railway that will link the Tanzanian port of Dar-es-Salaam and Kigali remains October 2018. Mbarawa said that the two governments will collectively review the study after the procurement processes – probably in one month’s time. The previous study which was done provided that a cargo train would move at a speed of 80km/hr and the passenger train move at 120km/hr. Also read: Rwanda and Tanzania meet over Isaka-Kigali SGR financing “Under the proposed electric locomotive, passenger trains will travel at a speed of 160km/hr while cargo train will move at a speed of 120km/hr,” he revealed. The distance between Dar-es-Salaam and Kigali is 1,320km. The change in design means that if someone has a cargo in Dar-es-Salaam it will take them a maximum of 15 hours to arrive in Kigali while the passengers will last approximately 10 hours on the train. After reviewing the feasibility study, the two governments will then open bids to contractors interested in building this railway line. It will be an open tender where everybody interested can apply. We will follow existing laws and regulations governing public tenders, and according to the regulations, this will take us at least three months. This might go up to July and then in August we will have a mobilization period – where the contractor will bring in the equipment and other logistics involved. “Following that order, we believe that the foundation stone of this project will be laid at least in October,” Mbarawa explained. The Standard Gauge Railway from the port of Dar es Salaam to Kigali is expected to cost Rwanda and Tanzania close to US $2.5 bn, initial studies had shown. Tanzania will contribute US $1.3 bn with Rwanda expected to spend US $1.2 bn. The Isaka-Kigali SGR project was launched on January 20, in Dar es Salaam by Rwanda Infrastructure Minister James Musoni and Prof. Mbarawa. It came barely a week after Presidents Paul Kagame and John Pombe Magufuli, sealed a deal that will see the two countries undertake a joint construction of the Standard Gauge Railway in January. 