Basically, all submersible water pumps work according to the same principle. They have a suction opening through which the machine takes in water. The water is then pumped to a higher area through a hose. But there are lots of different submersible pumps designed for totally different purposes and with vastly different technical details, which may be used in different ways, including draining a swamped basement or pool and much more. Moreover, these pumps may be found in various designs like vertical multistage pumps, well submersible pumps, plus much more. We have collected some of the most important considerations in choosing a submersible pump for you, so you can buy the right pump for your needs. Lots of types of pumps are only intended for use in clear water. This type of submersible pump, for example, might be used if you’re collecting rain water in a rainwater barrel or tank and then want to pump it to another container or even into a hose to water your garden. The types of pumps used in pond systems are also clear water pumps. Submersible pumps are also often used if there are environmental issues like a water main break or a flood. This type of device can help you pump your basement dry easily in case of emergency. Of course, you will need to check how much dirt and debris is in the water before you start to pump and be sure your pump can handle it. Water in a flooding situation often contains a large amount of dirt or silt, which means pumps designed for clear water won’t do the job. If the water you need to pump has heavy dirt deposits, you’ll need a pump suited for dirty water. It will be especially sturdy and won’t have any issues pumping water that contains mud or particles. As we’ve already described, these kinds of pumps are most commonly used in flooding situations and if muddy water has entered a building. These pumps can also be used to clean out sewage and septic systems. When you’re buying these submersible pumps, check the maximum grain size it can work with. This will tell you how large the particles in your water can be and still pass through the machine. You’ll need to choose a pump designed to work with the type of contamination you need to pump. Another way to use a submersible pump is to bring up water from a well or spring. In many cases, you will be using this pumped water in your home plumbing system. Some pumps aren’t suited for very deep groundwater levels because the suction head isn’t high enough. The suction head tells you how far the water level can be below the level of the pump. If the pump is placed directly in the water, the suction head will be close to zero. That’s why submersible pumps are so frequently used in deep wells. A garden pond is another great place to make use of a submersible pump. You’ll need the pump to pump water to the filter or to operate a fountain or running stream. Submersible pumps are the most common type of pump used for this application because you can place them directly in the water. If you need a pump for your garden fish pond, you can also look under pet supplies to find pumps which will work great. You’ll find pumps for both fresh water and salt water, as well as some specifically designed for outdoor use in fish ponds. After you’ve determined the area in which you want to use your submersible pump and narrowed down your options a little bit, you’ll also need to think about the technical details of the pumps available. The primary consideration will be the pump’s power, but there are a few other points you should also pay close attention to. If you do, you’ll be sure the submersible pump can easily handle all the jobs you want to use it for. Submersible pumps are used to transport liquids from a lower to a higher location. The difference in height the pump can handle, however, will always be limited. The maximum discharge head tells you how great this difference can be. If you want to use the pump, for example, to move water from a rain barrel to another container on the same level, you need only a minimal level of discharge head. If you want to pump out your basement after you’ve had a water line break, however, your discharge head needs to be significantly higher. If you have a deep well, you need a pump with a very high discharge head. That’s why you need to carefully consider what distance the pump needs to cover before you purchase so you can choose the right discharge head for you. The discharge rate indicates how much water the pump can move per hour or per minute. This value gives you the pump’s power level. It’s important to think about the discharge rate you’ll need for what you want to use the pump to accomplish. If you need the pump to pump water out of a rain barrel, for instance, a power level of 250 – 500 gallons per hour will be plenty to empty your container in an acceptable time period. If you want to pump out your flooded basement, on the other hand, you might have to pump for days to do the job if all you had was a pump with this power level. For this type of job you’ll need a high power pump with a discharge rate of over 1 or 2,000 gallons per hour. One important detail to look for when you’re choosing a submersible pump is a float switch. This is a switching device which controls the pump depending on the water level. It can be very important, for instance, in stopping the pump from operating once there’s no more water in the area you want to pump out. If the pump tries to operate without any water, it can cause major damage to the machinery. A float switch makes sure the pump turns off automatically at a low water level. Generally, float switches should offer multiple settings and adjustments. You can set the pump to automatically begin working again if the water level rises. When you’re choosing a pump, check that the model comes with a float switch if this is a feature you’d like to use. When the pump sucks water out of a container, its water level will drop. At a certain level, the suction assembly will no longer be entirely covered with water. This causes air to get into the pump and stops it from being able to do its job correctly. That’s why the pump will always leave a small amount of water in the container it is in which it isn’t able to suck up. The suction depth is the water level at which the pump is capable of operating. If you want to be able to empty a container almost completely, you’ll need the lowest possible suction depth. The submersible pump needs to be connected to a hose which will transport water away from the pump. There are lots of different hose sizes you might use for different applications. Individual pumps generally have different options for hose connections, but you won’t be guaranteed you can fit any hose onto any pump you like. If you already have a hose you want to use, you should be sure the pump will work with your hose size.