Cranes are a great investment for any business in the construction sector. They are built with resilience so as to guarantee extended quality performance, even so, if neglected they are bound to breakdown. According to Lindy Nauta of Konecranes in Finland, cranes need to be carefully monitored and maintained by experts in order to remain safe for use. Generally, there are three rudiments when it comes to crane maintenance. It is imperative to understand these three elements of maintenance even before buying the crane. This is modified to control the changes in the components of the crane as they are bound to change as one continues to use the equipment. The strain of typical crane activities can compromise the performance of the equipment even though there are no damages sustained. To properly maintain the crane one must continuously restore each component to its original state so as to avoid deterioration. The task involves oiling of moving parts, changing of oils and adjustment of wobbly crane joints. This is done to keep the equipment running smoothly. One should do this according to the manufacturer’s recommendations, it is good to do research on the cost and schedule for the machine so at to be certain you can manage these demands. Mr. Chetan Aggarwal the Sales Manager at KUHNEZUG AG MIDDLE EAST LLC from the UAE advises that the routine should be done by a trained personnel to ensure proper maintenance. Also Read:Top 20 largest crane companies in the world These are designed to satisfy the safety and regulatory measures. Cranes are heavy duty equipment that can pose a great hazard especially in construction sites. If such equipment fails to function properly, so many people can be hurt and numerous assets can sustain damages. Inspections are a great aspect of crane maintenance. It is important to submit to the mandatory compliance inspection which is to be done from time to time after the purchase of the equipment. These evaluations are designed to ensure that the crane meets the safety standards in the construction industry. According to Damien Bizjak of Terex Cranes from USA, it is highly advisable to keep service intervals and recommended maintenance routines; which should be carried out according to the local regulations. Always check the recommendations in the Occupational Health and Safety databases. It is good to note that one is obligated to carry out key examination after installation of the new equipment or after performing modifications. In some nations, regulations involve the use of a third party. Most vendors have certified inspectors who offer a precise evaluation of the condition of your equipment. They assess risks, spot improvement opportunities and offer recommendations. The assessment checklist includes checking for noticeable damages such as wire ropes, crane hook, outriggers. Checking the machine condition such as control, brakes, warning signs and examining and checking the area of operation. Moreover, Mr. Daniela Jones of Morris from USA mentions that, Crane Aid recommends a minor service to be done every 3 months, followed by a major service once a year as well as annual Statutory load testing as per the OSH Act. These are not necessarily mandated by the law or the manufacturers’. Mostly, these are crane care and servicing practices that are carried out in compliance with the exact machinery requirements. This type of crane maintenance generally entails evaluation of the features of the machines that are not operating to the mandatory levels. In plain terms, one ought to be able to recognize wear and tear problems associated to place of work accidents or equipment damage. The affected components should be repaired and enhanced to avoid possible breakdown. A vigorous preventive maintenance course is vital to ensuring safety and productivity. Preventive maintenance can cut downtime and boost consistency. Proper crane maintenance is a must if you want to avoid the crane breaking down and to ensure it has a longer life. A well maintained crane can work for years and is a great investment for the business.   Contact our contributors  USA Konecranes Finland KUHNEZUG AG UAE Morris USA   