BITZER, the world’s largest independent manufacturer of refrigeration compressors, has opened an authorized service centre (ASC) in Nairobi, the capital city of Kenya, and therefore now offers its partners more services. Just 14 months after establishing the Kenya office, BITZER is increasing its presence in Nairobi by opening an authorized service centre in cooperation with its local partner RepElectric. Both the office and service centre in Kenya are structurally affiliated with and receive support from BITZER Middle East. “Kenya is a strategically important growth region for BITZER,” said Stefan Leitl, Managing Director of BITZER Middle East. “Increased prosperity and growth in population have led to greater demand for reliable refrigeration and air conditioning. Our ASC allows us to offer our partners in Kenya a brand new, authorised range of services. Because we have a BITZER team in the region, we can
now respond much quicker to all requests,” he said. He further added that, another benefit is that their colleagues in Nairobi are very well-acquainted with the requirements of local users. They can quickly repair reciprocating compressors and motors and thus reduce downtime, carry out maintenance work, order original BITZER spare parts and provide advice on all issues related to repairs, efficiency requirements and product piracy. Thanks to the authorized service centre, customers can now rely on a local team that understands user requirements and can provide them with direct access to BITZER’s global service, maintenance and spare part network. “At the same time, we can offer our customers a much larger range of models and shorter delivery times; that means the optimal solution for every application in BITZER quality,” emphasized Leitl. The BITZER Group is the world’s largest independent manufacturer of refrigeration compressors. BITZER is represented across the globe through distribution companies and production facilities for reciprocating, screw and scroll compressors, pressure vessels and heat exchangers. In 2016, 3,400 employees generated sales of €680 million.