“There have always been three solid reasons to choose UNION… quality, reliability and expertise”, says Humphrey Kinyua, Managing Director for ASSA ABLOY (EA) Limited. “Now, because of UNION’s reputation with contractors, installers and end-users, it’s rebrand means a new tagline, a new pack design and a change to its famous locksets too! UNION’s new tagline is now “Trusted by Professionals”. “UNION has sought out and listened to feedback from distributors, contractors, locksmiths and installers on how it can continue to provide the quality and value they expect from UNION, and how they can deliver even better products and service in the future.
Humphrey explains some of the activities that have been undertaken in the last year. “We have spent considerable time visiting our customers and have listened to their feedback. Most importantly, we’ve learnt from what they had to say and this feedback has formed the basis of our rebrand and will continue to inform the future of UNION.” “We have simplified the look and feel of our branding to make it more impactful and easily recognizable. This will give the UNION brand an increased visual presence with our distribution channels, as well as professionals and end users. The packaging will now be in conspicuous red and black packaging!” he explains further. Additionally, considerable investment in research and development is also being made, culminating in new product features. “As part of ASSA ABLOY group we are heavily supported with continuous research and development investment to ensure UNION can offer a complete door solution to locksmiths and installers. For instance, the 2-Lever lock now comes with an easily reversible latch. Also a wide range of our ironmongery has also been CE certified to meet the global security and fire-rating standards.” ASSA ABLOY (EA) Ltd.
Dunga Close off Dunga Road
Industrial Area,
P.O. Box 42837-00100
Nairobi, Kenya.
Tel: +254(0)20 653 1569/ 653 0324
Cell: +254(0) 729 356 575/734 356 574
info.kenya@assaabloy.com
www.assaabloy.co.ke Directors:
H.K. Rukaria
I.N. James
R.G. Chatburn (South African)
P.J. Le Roux (South African) The rebrand campaign focusses on the three solid reasons why contractors, installers and end-users should choose UNION:
First and foremost UNION stands for EXPERTISE. We have a rich heritage dating back to 1840. Secondly, our master-keying department has significant combined experience between our technical, support and pinning teams. “Our expertise allows us to continue to innovate to offer an enhanced service and provides us with the flexibility to reduce the lead time on master-keyed cylinders. We understand the pressures that our customers are under to deliver in a 24-7 market, so have worked extensively to reduce the lead time of our cylinders,” notes Humphrey. Finally, manufacturing and product design expertise remains in-house at various ASSA ABLOY factory sites around the world, with a global team of R&D experts and innovation engineers working hand in hand to ensure top quality products at all times. This has been fundamental in providing the product assurance and value that is essential in building and maintaining installers’ and end-users’ trust in the UNION brand. ASSA ABLOY (EA) LTD is part of ASSA ABLOY AB, the global leader in door opening solutions, which has over 100 companies worldwide, and owns some of the best known and trusted brands in locks and doors. Our focus is to provide door opening solutions that are innovative and well designed for safety, security and convenience. Through customer relevance and innovation, our solutions create superior value for all business sectors, and for people at work, at home and at leisure. Our product portfolio ranges from conventional mechanical locks (for all types of doors), high security/specialized and fire rated doors, panic escape hardware, and high security master keying systems, to state-of-the-art electro-mechanical & digital locks for access control, automatic door systems, hotel systems, safes as well as automatic gate controllers. For further clarification, please contact Corporate Communication office on:
Email: info.kenya@assaabloy.com
Tel: +254 20 6531569/6530324