Sika is proud to announce the launch of Sikaflex® High Tack, a powerful construction adhesive with high initial tack, suitable for bonding most construction materials over different surfaces for both professional customers and private end users. Sikaflex® High Tack complements the industry- renowned range of Sikaflex® technology, including Sikaflex®-11FC+ and Sikaflex® Crystal Clear. Sika as always has proved its capacity to bring innovations into the market. Now, we are excited to inform our customer that besides the powerful initial tack, Sikaflex® High Tack is a CE marked sealant for use in interior and exterior façade joints (EN 15651-1 F-EXT- INT  20HM). Sikaflex® High Tack is unique in the market, being a high tack adhesive and an elastic sealant for façade elements. Due to its powerful grab and fast curing properties, Sikaflex® High Tack is recommended for bonding objects on vertical surfaces or for overhead applications. Sikaflex® High Tack can be used for bonding wood boards, mouldings, panel bonding, ceramic tiles, roof tiles, metal boxes, interior and exterior wall decorations and various accessories, in bathroom, kitchen, workshops etc. Sikaflex® High Tack bonds building materials such bricks, stones, ceramics, different metals, concrete, hard, PVC, timber and much more Sikaflex® High Tack has a high initial tack, especially developed for vertical or overhead applications. Sikaflex® High Tack is very easy to apply, solvent free and has very low emissions. It is water- and weatherproof and the elastic bonding allows for the vibrations and shock to be absorb. Another ideal characteristic is that it is paintable and suitable for damp surfaces. Sika is a specialty chemicals company with a leading position in the development and production of systems and products for bonding, sealing, damping, reinforcing and protecting in the building sector and automotive industry. Sika has subsidiaries in 100 countries around the world and manufactures in over 200 factories. Its more than 18,000 employees generated annual sales of CHF 6.25 billion in 2017.