OPTRON, a leading supplier of advanced positioning solutions across sub-Saharan Africa, has announced they are now offering Microdrones unmanned aerial mapping solutions. “The easy-to-use and innovative advanced technology that is packed within Microdrones UAV solutions, will provide huge benefits and cost savings to our existing clients that are looking for a professional multirotor drone/UAV solution,” said Henno Morkel, UAS Segment Specialist for OPTRON. “The advanced German engineering and quality of the Microdrones products, with easily swappable payloads and integrated workflows for different applications, will greatly benefit our prospective clients in various sub-Saharan industries such as Oil & Gas, Agriculture, Construction, Inspections, and Forestry,” he added. OPTRON supplies and supports products across sub-Saharan Africa, with the assistance of a network of resellers and agents. Their solutions integrate a wide range of positioning technologies including GPS, laser, optical and inertial technologies, coupled with the latest application software and wireless communication technologies. “OPTRON is not just a box-moving company but a professional integrator of advanced positioning systems. We help our clients achieve success in their respective fields by using cutting edge technologies,” explained Morkel. Henno recently visited Microdrones offices in Siegen and received advanced training on operating Microdrones systems, including mdMapper1000, mdMapper1000DG, and the mdLiDAR1000. OPTRON is offering Microdrones fully integrated systems that feature their advanced UAV with custom hardware and software, outfitted for specific surveying applications. mdSolutions feature packages that offer everything a commercial user needs to get started using drones for surveying and mapping – the UAV, the sensors, and the software and hardware. The mdSolutions product line-up currently includes: mdMAPPER200 mdMAPPER1000 mdMAPPER1000DG mdLIDAR1000 mdTECTOR1000CH4 “We are very excited about the new partnership between Microdrones and OPTRON, and we are excited about a productive future journey between the two companies…one that benefits our customers throughout the region,” Concludes Morkel. Founded in Germany in 2005, Microdrones developed the world’s first commercial quadcopter and the company continues to lead the industry with their professional UAV solutions. By pairing robust drones with cutting-edge sensors, Microdrones offers advanced turn-key solutions that make it easy for businesses to start using UAVs for surveying, mapping, construction, inspection, precision agriculture, mining, and other commercial applications. A heritage of quality German engineering, extra-long flight times, resistance to environmental challenges, and technology like direct georeferencing make Microdrones solutions exceptionally safe, efficient, and cost-effective choices for commercial users.