A correctly selected and installed submersible water pump in a properly constructed water well can be trouble free for may years. Here is how to go about installing a submersible water pump properly. Check the well total depth – the distance from the ground level to the bottom of the well. Head – A vertical distance from the pump to the ground level where water is discharged or into a pressure tank. GPM – the amount of water in GPM the pump produces Check the details on the submersible motor looking for power supply rating, identify whether it is a 2-wire single phase, a 3-wire single phase and needs a pump starter box or 3 phase configuration. Check that the submersible pump drop cable suits the motor cable and motor and is correctly rated for submersion in water. Check that the fittings match the outlet on the pump, the rising main and the bore cap. Use supplied grease to lubricate and seal splined shaft on assembly. Tape poly pipe or lay flat fitting with thread tape and screw into pump. When the drop cable must be spliced or connected to the motor leads, it is necessary that the splice be water tight. The splice can be made with commercially available potting or heat shrink splicing kits. Follow the kit instructions carefully. Fit rising main to pump and roll out. Fit bore cap to the other end of rising main. Attach stainless steel safety cable to pump and roll out with rising main and drop cable. Attach safety cable end to bore cap allowing for the rising main to stretch. You can also use zip ties. Allow some slack for the rising main to stretch. You can tape the full length of the cable splice to the rising main to protect it. Allow a couple of meters extra drop cable to be doubled up and taped to the rising main below the bore cap. This might be required if the cable splice or motor need replacement at a later date. If the weight of the assembly is light enough to handle, gently lower the pump end into the well with an assistant to hold the bore cap end. Feed the assembly down the hole, pay particular attention to preventing damage to the electric drop cable. The assembly should be suspended by the bore cap on top of the casing. Attach bore cap to vehicle with a sling and “D” shackle. Position roller over well. Position vehicle to allow the pump to be lowered into well. Drive vehicle toward well. Lower the last meter by hand if possible or allow the well cap to bump over roller and into position on the casing. Connect pump starter, pump controller and pump protection device to power supply and test pump. Allow a few moments for the water to reach the surface. On completion of the initial test proceed to connect the required pipe work to the bore cap. Finally test pump operation and operation of pump protection devices and controls. 