The Federal Government of Nigeria is happy with the level of progress made on on-going federal road projects in the North Eastern part of the country. The satisfaction remarks were made by Engr. Muhammed Rufai the Director of Works, Northeast zone in the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, during a press after leading a ministerial media project assessment team on tour of on-going road and housing projects in the zone. Moreover, according to Engr. Rufai the government is prepared to give contractors all the necessary supports to enable them deliver the projects on schedule. “As you have seen, all the contractors were on site, working. The quality of work I saw is good. They have all affirmed that they are not being owed and have made a commitment to complete the work on schedule; so what is needed is for the tempo to be maintained. The government on its part has made the commitment of continuous support,” said Engr. Muhammed Rufai. “About three years ago, these contractors abandoned the sites, largely because they were being owed and security was nothing to write home about. Now they confirmed to you that the debts have been cleared and they are being paid regularly amidst improved security and you can see the speed and quality of the work being done; and the zeal with which the people, skilled and unskilled, who confessed to have been gainfully employed, are going about their work. Indeed I am highly satisfied,” he added. Also read: Remedial repair works on Nigeria roads commence During the tour, the team visited the US $33.8m, 47km Tudun-Wuss-Wundi-Baraza-Durrzumbul-Polchi-Dot-Kwanar Road of contract No.6298 under construction by Datum Nigeria Ltd. The project is currently at 2.5% complete; US $19.7m, 38km Ningi-Yadgungume-Fuskar Mata Road Phase III of contract No. 6264 under construction in Bauchi State by Triacta Ltd is at 37% complete . Others were the US $19.7m, 38km Gombe-Numan-Yola Road phase II being handled by Triacta Nig. Ltd at 47% completion; construction of US $39.4m (original contract sum),73km Burga-Dull-Mbatt-II-Tandum-Gobbiya-Badagari-Gwaranga-Sum Road of contract No. 6308 by Messrs Triacta Nig. Ltd at 9.55% completion. Rehabilitation of Tumu-Pindiiga-Kashere(Gombe State)-Futuk-Yalo (Bauchi State) Road/ Construction of 15km Yalo-Bashar-Dengi section (Buachi/Plateau States by Rockbridge Ltd at 49% completion; Dualisation of Kano-Maiduguri Road sections II, III, IV, and V, all in the Northeast which are at various stages of completion. There were also stop-over visits to three National Housing Programme sites within the zone where works were in progress and at various stages of completion. All the contracts are scheduled for completion from the second half of 2018 to the end of 2019.