Combilift, the material handling solutions provider, has launched a new high capacity powered pallet truck – the Combi-PPT suitable for Africa market. The powered pallet truck comes with standard lift capacities of 3,000 kg and 6,000 kg, with higher capacity models from 7,000kg to 16,000kg available on request. It is a further addition to the Irish company’s growing pedestrian range with the optional operator’s platform enabling stand-on or walk behind operation. The Combi-PPT includes a feature common to all Combilift’s pedestrian models: its unique, patented multi-position tiller arm. This enables the operator to stand at the side of the unit rather than at the rear (as is the case with other walk behind brands), giving operators excellent visibility of even the bulkiest loads and their surroundings. The operator’s position also eliminates any possibility of crush risk when working in confined areas and prevents product damage. “With the introduction of the Combi-PPT, very heavy loads can now be handled using these walk-behind machines, ensuring high levels of safety whilst guaranteeing efficient procedures even in confined spaces,” according to Martin McVicar, Managing Director, Combilift. “Combilift developed its first pedestrian models (the Combi-WR, Combi-WR4 and the Combi-CS) in response to an industry demand to move away from ride-on forklifts. As a company we are seeing a growing demand for pedestrian trucks, driven by safety concerns where customers and/or employees are in the vicinity of operating forklifts. It is our intention to significantly expand our pedestrian forklift range as can be seen with the launch of the Combi-PPT. This forklift offers safer operation, maximum operator visibility and narrow aisle performance.” The Combi-PPT’s automatic folding platform is an added benefit for operators when large distances have to be covered in a warehouse or production plant. The power steering, dual rear wheel drive and AC motor technology make it effortless and stress free for operators: it “glides” across the floor even when moving very heavy loads and its manoeuvrability enables tight corners to be negotiated safely and with ease. A range of optional fork lengths, widths and configurations is available – in line with Combilift’s policy of supplying customised solutions for individual customer requirements. 