Italy-based global construction equipment supplier, MB Crusher has provided solution for construction and demolition waste (CDW) processing and explained a number of cases where the MB products have been used in a range of applications around the world. “The process of recycling is pretty straightforward, firstly, fine material is separated. Subsequently, there needs to be a volumetric reduction, a separation from any metals and the final removal of the light fraction. However, of this whole process crushing is considered the critical phase for several reasons,” said the company. In the Hautes Pyrénées (France), a combination of a crusher bucket BF80.3 with an iron separator and a New Holland excavator are paring up to recycle the railway sleepers which were cumulated. The MB crusher bucket aims to work with any brand of excavator, utilising their hydraulic system, so material that represented difficult waste to dispose of can be not only a revenue font but an easy task to accomplish. The alternative in the market given by MB jaw crusher bucket, where concrete can be separated from the iron. To facilitate this operation the suggestion is to load the bucket with an MB grapple and let the jaw and gravity do the rest. Alternatively, skilled operators can feed the bucket manoeuvring the excavator, a magnetic kit installed can also facilitate the separation and salvaging the metal. In Brazil, light posts were accumulated in a warehouse, treated as waste due to the difficulty of the reclaiming process. With the use of a Bucket Crusher BF60.1mounted on a Case CX130B, these old posts became a font of income, easily processed to extract the iron which is then resold. Another way to optimize traditional crushers in reclaiming plants is to introduce uniform material, step easily achieved by using the output material coming directly from MB crusher buckets and MB screening buckets. In Paris, a MB Crusher Bucket BF135.8 feeds a screener already in place to obtain different outputs in record time with an incredible saving in production cost. Pre-crushing the blocks, using the Volvo E700 70t excavator permits a consistent input. Traditionally this operation would have required a wide size for manoeuvre and the use of more equipment. But extraction sites are changing, job schedules are tight and commitment to safety crucial. In this case, after the extraction, the silica needs to be reduced to be treated, the BF135.8 simply scoops it up and with jaws set to 0/120 the material is crushed directly into the screener’s mouth, one operator manages the entire chain safely from the excavator cab. In Mexico, when there is a huge extension in the quarry, it is necessary to have agile systems. The MB-S18 screening bucket to process limestone with a Caterpillar 336D has increased the hourly production rate minimised the impact on costs. Modern quarries management often has problems with logistics, as to reach the fixed plant to process material, requires many trips, MB units offers the key solution with the plug and work flexibility provided by its attachments. Since the dawn of time, mankind has been looking for more productive ways to operate and each specific challenge requires specific solutions, therefore combinations are considered countless and many have yet to explore their choice.