Cable management solutions specialist Strutfast says it has become the recognized African cable management brand for the African construction sector, having successfully supplied its solutions to hundreds of projects across the continent. “Strutfast has developed an enviable international reputation for meeting the demanding requirements of various cable management applications in Africa.” said Strutfast Director of Projects & Operations, Levy Tshabalala. “We are an African owned business, we understand Africa and we are African. We are the logical choice when selecting a cable management partner for construction projects in Africa.” said Strutfast. The Johannesburg, South Africa-based Company, established in 2001, designs, manufactures and supplies innovative, high quality cable management systems for all industries.Through its experience in value engineering and innovative product design, Strutfast aims to reduce costs across the entire scope of a client’s project. “With an emphasis on innovation and full project lifecycle support, Strutfast has the technical design skills, manufacturing capability and logistics expertise to ensure that our customers can complete their projects on time and within budget,” said Strutfast Managing Director, Tony Kinsella. “Strutfast is focused on providing high-quality solutions to meet and exceed even the most arduous project requirements, especially for oil & gas, mining and power applications. Our cable ladders are fully and independently tested to meet and exceed the requirements of National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) standards 20B and 20C,” Kinsella highlights. “Our design innovation is demonstrated by the fact that we have 11 design registrations and patents across our cable management portfolio. From the specifically designed MEGABOW system through to our commercial power trunking, Strutfast’s innovative design features offer both the system designer and the installer incredible benefits.” Kinsella adds. Absolute quality is at the heart of Strutfast, noting that its Business Management System has been developed to meet all of the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 for which Strutfast has recently been successfully accredited. Strutfast is also committed to the broad-based black economic empowerment (BBBEE) initiative. “We are a Level 4 BBBEE contributor and have a 51% black ownership through an innovative staff trust, which ensures the up liftment and ongoing personal development of our 95 strong workforce.” Further, Tshabalala notes that with its in-depth knowledge and experience in cable management solutions, along with the commitment to total project life cycle support, from design to installation training and maintenance advice, provides its customers with full confidence for any of their cable management projects. “An impressive client base of highly respected global companies, have entrusted their cable management solutions to the team at Strutfast,” he concludes.