Impressed with Flowcrete Africa’s flooring solution in its Cape Town branch, be.UP Park enlisted the flooring specialists to recommend a glossy and safe floor finish for its Durban venue. be.UP Park is an indoor activity park aimed at both children and adults, offering a wide variety of activities that encourage exercise and fun. Being available for team building events, short play times and large groups of children’s parties, each be.UP Park is known for its exciting yet safe environment. Located in the large-scale Gateway Theatre of Shopping, which houses over 390 stores and 70 eateries, be.UP Park was one of several new exciting entertainment zones to open in the shopping centre, offering visitors access to trampoline zones, climbing walls, an aerial play area, maze and a café. With brightly coloured activity apparatus as well as colourful graffiti style artwork adorning the walls and locker areas, the flooring was required to be a single colour with a gloss finish. Using a single colour helps to highlight any dropped items or spillages, meaning that they can be cleaned up or removed before becoming a trip hazard. For this, Flowcrete Africa’s Flowcoat SF41 in Light Grey was chosen. Firstly, 300 m2 of the fast curing, solvent free epoxy primer Flowprime was applied to the concrete substrate, providing good corrosion resistance, adhesion to the concrete and the ability to cure in low temperature and high humidity conditions. For the floor’s coating, 300 m2 of the high performance, solvent free Flowcoat SF41 epoxy resin was specified. This flooring build-up would provide excellent wear and abrasion resistance, which was extremely important for the floor due to the high footfall, heavy apparatus, frequent cleaning and potential for impacts, scuffs and scrapes that could be expected in the play area. With health and safety rules stipulating no shoes, the anti-slip profile of Flowcoat SF41 would reduce the chance of visitors slipping over, even when wearing be.UP’s grippy socks. Its durability and hard wearing nature means that the floor will remain looking its best for an extended period of time. The juxtaposition of the Light Grey Flowcoat SF41 and the colourful activity apparatus helps to generate excitement for the play zones, while bright orange demarcation clearly displays when one zone is being left and another is being entered. The durable nature of Flowcrete Africa’s resin flooring systems is ideal for such environments, as no matter how high the footfall the floor’s finish will not deteriorate. A seamless surface is also much easier to clean, with no joints for germs and dirt to hide in. With a reliable, hygienic and safe floor, visitors can focus on enjoying the activities that be.UP Park has to offer. Flowcrete Africa has offices in Durban, Johannesburg, Cape Town and Nairobi and is one of the four divisions that make up Flowcrete Group Ltd. Flowcrete Group Ltd. is a world leader in the manufacture of seamless industrial and commercial resin floor, wall and coving solutions as well as other specialist coating technologies. Flowcrete Group Ltd. has international manufacturing facilities in Europe and Africa as well as Central and South East Asia. Flowcrete supplies world-class seamless flooring solutions to transform environments across the globe including; decorative seamless resins, waterproof car park deck coating systems, seamless resin terrazzo, durable antimicrobial flooring, fast curing systems, corrosion protection and self-levelling underlayment. Flowcrete’s ambitious and dedicated team, led by President Craig Brookes, is inspired by excellence in people, products and service as well as continual innovation and sustainable growth. Flowcrete continues to use its global expertise to introduce environmentally friendly, hygienic and aesthetically attractive floors to create a better and more sustainable world. For further information please contact +27 31 461 3411. Or visit us on the web at www.flowcretesa.co.za.