Dawood Vawda, a well-known entrepreneur in the North-West of KZN ownes two Mica stores in Estcourt and Ladysmith is now opening The Square Shopping Centre in Ladysmith where his third Mica franchise will also be opened. As the developer and owner of The Square Shopping Centre, Vader had a vested interested in the overall project and ensured premium products were used both in the construction and finishing touches. Sika has recently launched a brand new tile adhesive range, including a porcelain adhesive product suitable for applying the porcelain tile finish to both the walls and the floors of the Shopping. Sika’s Regional Manager, Mervyn Naidoo, was on site to offer sound advice on correct applications and products for the specified requirements. This is the largest tile adhesive project for Sika SA to date,completing a total of 11880m² of floor and wall tile area of the mall. SikaCeram-200 Porcelain the tile adhesive used for all floor tiles throughout the mall as well as the walls in the passages leading to the bathroom areas. SikaCeram-200 Porcelain is a single component, pre-packed tile adhesive mortar, combining cement with selected grades of sand and synthetic polymers. SikaCeram-200 Porcelain Tile adhesive is easily mixed with water to produce a smooth, thixotropic, tile adhesive for thin or thick-bed application. In addition to the interior finishes, the project also required waterproofing of the outside walkways and entrance. Cemflex (250lt), an acrylic based emulsion was the simple solution, chosen for its ease of application and efficacy. It improves the water resistance and adhesion of Portland cement based composites. It is watertight and has good abrasion resistance, ideal for the general wear and tear cause by foot traffic. For minor patch repairs incorporated in to the screed mix, Sika Latex® was the product chosen and is a synthetic rubber emulsion. The product is suitable for use in tropical and hot climatic conditions. It is known to have extremely good adhesion, reduced shrinkage greater flexibility and excellent water resistance. This product is suitable for use in tropical and hot climatic conditions. Sikalastic-560, one component, liquid applied waterproofing membrane, was then specified to waterproof the flat roofs of the power station room. Sikalastic-560 provides excellent adhesion on both porous and non-porous substrates as well as on bituminous products, and since it is a completely seamless, fully bonded system, the risk of leaks due to overlap failures, is totally negated. Combining the high performance of polyurethane dispersion with the familiar properties of an acrylic, Co-elastic Technology offers an unsurpassed performance compared to conventional acrylic dispersion; higher elastic and crack-bridging properties, faster drying times, higher UV resistance resulting in better colour stability and durability, as well as being environmentally friendly with very low odour and Volitile Organic Compounds (VOC) free. Sikaflex®PRO 3i a one part, moisture curing, elastic joint sealant was used to for the expansion joints of the floor in the interior section of the mall. Sikaflex®PRO-3 is a multipurpose floor joint sealant suitable for movement and connection joints in floors, joints in contact with potable water and indoor and outdoor applications for pedestrian and traffic areas. Sika’s high quality products were essential for the contractor to complete this project in the specified 12 month period. Checkers had opened in the first week of August 2018. Although finer details of the project are yet to be completed, it is expected that the mall will be have the Grand opening at the beginning of September 2018.