Ready-mix concrete company CONMIX has diversified its portfolio with the addition of water treatment additives. CONMIX offers a wide range of pre-engineered as well as custom engineered solutions for water treatment needs such as systems and chemical additives that address problems like scale deposition, corrosion build up and microbiological fouling in Boilers, Cooling Towers, Chillers, Swimming Pools, etc. CONMIX provides cleaning, de-greasing, disinfecting additives for the treatment of waste water and potable water. Some of the benefits of Water Treatment are that it optimizes water-based industrial and domestic processes, minimize TCO – Total Cost of Operation, reduces risks of operation/production failures and increases the running time while enhancing productivity of systems. CONMIX offers Water Treatment Packages that meet environmental regulations and are cost effective. Tailor-made solutions are also offered, which include systems and chemical additives that prevent and reduce various contaminations like scale deposition, corrosion build-up and microbiological fouling in the systems. Besides these products, the firm aims to provide customised combinations with the ‘On-load Brush Cleaning System’ for problems encountered in industrial water treatment, which are described as the best solution to maximise heat transfer in heat exchangers and condensers. CONMIX’s portfolio includes readymix concrete, pre-mix plaster, construction chemicals and water treatment. The company has offices and manufacturing units in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman and Ras Al Khaimah, all in the UAE; Addis Ababa in Ethiopia; Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Nairobi, Kenya and Tunis, Tunisia. Its products form an integral part of innumerable buildings and civil engineering works in the UAE and elsewhere. They are currently exported to over 30 countries. The company’s core business is readymix concrete, which it designs and supplies to meet the exact requirements of specifiers. Through its team of experienced engineers and concrete technologists, the company can supply high-performance durable concrete for all applications and requirements.