Technology, innovation and quality made in Italy Merlo SpA is a dynamic industrial reality, at the technological forefront, fully integrated and exclusively private capital for the production of machines with high technological content. It is an affirmed business group which has enjoyed a leading presence in all the world markets and is the international point of reference when talking about telescopic lifts. The Group is constituted by companies created to carry out an ambitious project: to produce products designed and built entirely in Italy. Because Merlo is not an “assembler” but an extremely vertical industrial reality that designs, develops and produces in its interior most of the components. This allows them to always provide the best solution for the clients’ needs, obtaining products designed and made entirely in Italy. The success of Merlo in the world is born from the ability to anticipate the demands of the markets and each machine produced testifies to the commitment of the company to offer its customers the best technology available today, with the guarantee of fifty years of experience in research and innovation and it is precisely thanks to research, innovation and the continuous development of new products as the company Merlo wants to continue reinforcing its primacy in advanced technologies and quality. The Merlo Group, founded in 1964, has more than 1,200 employees and the area covered by the Cuneo establishments is around 220,000 square meters. More than 90% of the production is exported worldwide through a commercial network articulated in 7 subsidiaries and more than 600 dealers. The Merlo Group is the market leader in telescopic rotating turret elevators and telescopic hydrostatic transmission elevators. The product catalog consists of a complete range of telescopic lifts, both fixed and rotary, of Dbm self-loading concrete mixers, multi-purpose Cingo tracked conveyors and Mpr self-propelled platforms. All products of the Merlo range are distinguished by innovation, technology and reliability, always distinctive features of the Merlo Group that have been made with the confidence of the markets.