In a fast changing world, humanity is confronted with challenges like global warming, depletion of valuable resources and, most threatening, water scarcity. Water is a bare necessity of life and essential in the production of food, goods and energy for social-economic development and for maintaining healthy ecosystems. Even though 70% of the earth’s surface consists of water, only 1% of this immense quantity is fresh water and available for human consumption and use. A growing world population, the changing climate and the demands for higher standards of living only intensify the pressure on already scarce resources. Therefore, integration of water purification, sustainable energy generation and reuse of resources is becoming more and more essential in production processes. Since over 30 years, Paques helps industries to reduce water and carbon footprints and reclaim valuable resources. Paques’ anaerobic water purification systems produce energy (biogas) from wastewater, whilst purifying the water and facilitating water reuse. After the introduction of the first BIOPAQ® reactor in 1981 Paques developed a broad portfolio for integrated water and gas treatment in close cooperation with partners. All the solutions proved to be cost-effective and highly reliable. Leading companies from a variety of industries worldwide selected Paques as their partner for meeting their purification and sustainability obligations. Paques accomplished long-term relationships with customers by working together in the development of solutions and delivery of high-quality installations. In more than three decades, Dutch second-generation family owned business Paques became one of the leading players in water and gas treatment and currently Paques has offices and/or production facilities in the Netherlands, China, Brazil, United States of America and India and a network of professional partners worldwide. They have also sold and built references in African countries like Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, Nigeria, Malawi, Kenya and South Africa With a large number of installed references (over 1800 in more than 60 countries), Paques proved to be a reliable partner in business. Solutions for water and gas treatment require an integrated approach. Paques’ strength lies in devising solutions that meet even the most far-reaching requirements of customers. Paques has a high focus on innovation, and continuously develops new treatment systems for new challenges. Over the past decades, the company has converted many innovative ideas into successful solutions for clients. With dedicated R&D centers in the Netherlands and China, Paques remains a leading company in the field of the development of water and gas treatment. The combination of knowhow, experience, decisiveness and our multidisciplinary approach, guarantees an accelerated implementation. More information Please download the brochure or contact us.