South Africa is set to commence construction works on the 2000 ha Ntshongweni urban development project in Durban following approval for the development of the project. Tongaat Hulett Developments managing director, Michael Deighton, Tongaat Hulett confirmed the statement and said the development which will commence in the first quarter of 2019, is set to provide a framework for environmentally sustainable, community-centric and inclusive urbanization.The urban core will offer residents shopping and leisure opportunities. “The N3 corridor is currently the country’s busiest transport route and will be upgraded in line with the aim of improving the country’s logistics and transport links. Linking into this important strategic corridor, the people-centered Ntshongweni Urban Development will create a benchmark for the way in which new, integrated, inclusive South African urban precincts are developed. From urban planning through to the residential, retail, commercial, recreational, logistics and light industrial activities, the mixed uses of this area are vast,” said Michael Tongaat. Also Read: Kenya to construct the largest CBD mall space in Nairobi The Tongaat Hulett Developments will be responsible for the overall development vision and concept framework aligning with the public sector policy, plans and objectives.The development project will implement their comprehensive iThuba progamme to ensure social-economic benefits are felt where needed most. Bongani Gumed, Tongat Hullet’s executive is responsible for community’s public and private partnership in executive states. “This tried and tested approach will embed social relevance, access to opportunities, localisation of skills, enterprise development and the creation of sustainable inclusive communities in every facet of the development execution,”said Mr. Tongaat. The Ntshongweni project which is estimated to take over 20 year construction period will create over 400 000 jobs and upon completion it will generate US $47m in annual rates for the eThekwini municipality and US $341m  in annual tax revenue.