Maxiflex reputed world-class quality door solutions and service provider has secured an order for an overhead panel sectional door from a leading citrus fruit handling company situated in the Eastern Cape, South Africa. The customer required a specialised door solution for their new 11 000m2 warehouse with a capacity of handling tons of citrus produce hourly. A superior quality door solution was essential as product handling in and out of the warehouse must be swift to maintain the facility’s interior temperature in order to reduce the risk of costly produce spoilage and losses. The project was spearheaded by Viaplan Consulting Engineers and Randcivils, two professional and highly respected companies in the civil engineering and construction industry. With quality product and service support stipulated by the customer as prerequisites, the two companies immediately turned to Maxiflex to provide an optimum door solution. “Maxiflex is known to Viaplan Consulting Engineers and Randcivils as we have been involved with them on a number of similar installations in the area,” explains Bram Janssen, Managing Director of Maxiflex. “Once we had identified the customer’s exact requirements, we immediately knew that the 1042P overhead panel sectional door from ASSA ABLOY Entrance Solutions would cater to the customer’s exact requirements.” Janssen adds that in addition to its exceptional features, the door’s pleasing aesthetic appearance perfectly complements the warehouse’s façade. In addition to the already well established sole distributor rights for ASSA ABLOY Entrance Solutions in Sub-Saharan Africa, Maxiflex recently acquired exclusive rights to distribute in Southern Africa, Stackdoor®, a pioneering security grille manufactured in The Netherlands. Ideally suited for warehouses, logistics centres and factories, the robust, flexible, efficient and safe door system presents excellent sealing properties. Each part of the overhead panel sectional door is built to the highest standards to ensure reliable operation even under extremely high workloads and arduous conditions. Made up of 42mm panels, the door forms a 4-way seal when closed, ensuring outstanding insulation from all weather conditions, protecting the fruit inside the warehouse. The door’s ingenious design has earned a class 3-certification for water tightness, wind load and air permeability. Furthermore, by helping to regulate the warehouse’s internal temperature, energy costs are kept to a minimum with subsequent costs savings for the customer. From a safety perspective, the panels are filled with flame retardant polyurethane so the door won’t accelerate a fire and a control panel fitted to the door will indicate any faults. Installation of the overhead sectional door was completed during the first quarter of 2018 to the satisfaction of the customer who also confirmed that they were impressed with the quality of the product. The customer also confirms that they have confidence in the door system as Maxiflex has successfully supplied these panel sectional doors for similar warehouse applications in the local area. Maxiflex is responsible for door maintenance and provided the customer. “Correct use of the door system is critical as it will extend the product’s lifespan and keep running costs to a minimum for subsequent lowest total cost of ownership for our customer,” notes Janssen. Maxiflex’s turnkey industrial entrance solutions meet a multitude of applications across diverse industries – from automotive manufacturing and mining to food and beverage, refrigeration, hospitality and pharmaceutical. The product offering includes: A range of industrial sectional doors; vertical-lifting fabric doors for large openings and heavy-industry environments; loading dock equipment; protection screens and impact doors. The company is also an industry leader in the manufacture and supply of PVC strip curtains. “We are very pleased to announce that in the third quarter of 2018, we obtained the rights from American Mine Door to manufacture and install underground ventilation mine doors in South Africa,” concludes Janssen.