The Liberia National Housing Authority (NHA) has signed a four year Memorandum with Habitat for Humanity International (HFHI) in a bid to improve the housing sector. Managing Director for NHA, Mr. Duannah Siryon said the MoU signed is meant to facilitate increased access to affordable housing for low income households through an inclusive market approach. Also Read: Nigeria labor unions to provide affordable housing for workers The Managing Director added that the four-year agreement will ensure the development of policy guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders as well as the construction of community level housing pilots. It will also ensure capacity development for the private sector to play a greater role in delivering sustainable and affordable housing solutions. The four-year agreement will ensure the development of policy guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders as well as the construction of community level housing pilots. It will also ensure capacity development for the private sector to play a greater role in delivering sustainable and affordable housing solutions. Additionaly, the MoU will also ensure the institutional capacity building of NHA’s employees as well as other relevant agencies and communities on Participatory Safe Shelter Awareness (PASSA). Mr. Siryon said the authority was committed to hosting HFHI and will provide the required support for the smooth implementation of its programs through the Slum Upgrading Unit (SUU) of the NHA. “The agreement serves as an impetus to the formal process, reinforcing existing collaboration between the two organizations that began since 2017. This is the first step in the right direction of NHA’s strategic partnerships under the new government,” said Mr. Siryon. Vision for providing adequate, affordable housing HFHI Chief of Party (CoP), Mathew Ndote, said the four main deliverables of the agreement, which are very critical to the work of the NHA, will be achieved through an inclusive Market Systems development approach. “Under this MoU, we intend to develop policy guidelines in consultation with all stakeholders, construction of community level housing pilots, and the capacity development for private sector involvement,” he said. Mr. Ndote further emphasized that both HFHI and NHA share the vision of providing greater access to adequate and affordable housing for low-income and vulnerable communities and plan to achieve this through working with public, private and community sector partners. He added that the Cities Alliance Liberia Country Program provides a platform for partnership and collaboration between communities, public and private sector actors, to contribute towards improving the quality of lives for low-income and vulnerable communities and sustainable urban development. 