Kenya has announce to commence construction works of second and third phase of of the US $297m Dongo Kundu bypass next month following clearance from the Attorney General. The Kenya National Highways Authority director-general, Peter Mundinia confirmed the reports and said that the project also known as the Southern Bypass aims at easing traffic at Likoni Ferry and de-congesting the port and town. Also read: Kenya to open US $108.6m phase one of Dongo Kundu bypass Dongo Kundu bypass project The launch of Dongo Kundu Bypass Phase 2 and 3 also followed the recent completion and official opening of phase one of the project by China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation. Phase two and three of the project will involve construction of an interchange at the Likoni-Lunga Lunga highway and installation of two bridges: one at Mwache – spanning 900 metres, and a second at Mteza spanning 1.4km. The bypass will connect the main corridors; the Nairobi-Mombasa, Mombasa-Malindi and Mombasa-Lunga Lunga highways. Work on the US $238m 9km Mwache-Mteza dual carriageway, with two overseas bridges of 600m, 1,440m and a 660m viaduct, is scheduled to take 48 months as the 7km Mteza-Kibundani Road (phase three of Dongo Kundu), at a cost of  $39, will take 24 months. Kenya Tourism Federation chairman Mohamed Hersi, Mombasa Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry KNCCI) branch chairperson Rukia Rashid and Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa managing director Bobby Kamani welcomed the building of the new road. “The blue economy is about exploiting ocean resources such as fishing. These new linkages will connect the port and Special Economic Zones, attracting investments in fish processing and other specialized sectors for the export market. The zones are key to realization of the big four industrialization goals,” said Peter Mundinia. The Kenya Ports Authority is also set to establish a Special Economic Zone at Dongo Kundu after affirming that the first berth of a new free port will be built soon.