Installing a new roof can be quite expensive, with many homeowners spending at least US $5,000 on a new roof. That is a major expense for any home, but with proper roof shingles maintenance, it is one that does not need to be made for 20 years; sometimes even 30 years depending on the materials used. Of course, good maintenance habits can dramatically extend the life of your roof. Regular inspections, cleanings, and heading off problems before they become serious issues can make a difference in how long your roof lasts. The following are tips you can apply to maintain your roof and extend its lifespan: Most people do not love climbing up on their roof let alone trying to trim branches high up in trees. However, if there are limbs or branches close to your roof, you could be in for some serious issues. Tree limbs hanging down over your roof, or even on it can be a serious hazard. Not only do they put you at risk for broken limbs falling on the roof, they can wear down and damage shingles. Tree limbs are often flexible and can swing several feet during a storm. Cleaning the gutters is probably your least favorite fall home maintenance task, but it is one of the most important tasks for your roof. When your gutters are full of leaves and other debris, they can cause buildup of water, which can lead to water leaks and excessive weight on the roof. Clean gutters also allow for rainwater to flow freely away from vulnerable areas of the roof. When it comes to your roof maintenance, you may not love the idea of getting up on the roof with a broom, but it can help save your roof. Leaves, twigs, and other debris can pile up on your roof. From the valleys in the roofline to the low slopes on your roof, this debris can cause algae to grow, clog the gutters, and damage the shingles. Inspect and repair seals, joints, and flashing. These are the most frequent spots for leaks and should be regularly inspected for damage. Flashing covers entry points into your roof including the vents, exhaust pipe, and chimney, and it’s often a hotspot for leaks. Look for bending or even punctures, as well as dried out or loose sealant. Doing the above things go a long way in keeping your roof maintained, but at the end of the day, you probably aren’t a professional roofer. It takes a skilled and trained eye to know exactly what to look for on a roof. A no-obligation roof inspection from Indianapolis roofing contractors means you’ll know the damage your roof has sustained. Roof maintenance is serious business. You may not always think of it this way, but your roof is your home’s first line of defense. It’s ultimately what keeps your family and your biggest investment, your home, safe from the elements. With proper maintenance, you can enjoy decades of service from your roof. This can save you thousands on roof replacement and keep your home and family safe for years to come.