ASSA ABLOY, the global leader in door opening solutions, has updated its door closers to give the range a distinctive and stylish appearance. The new ASSA ABLOY design marks a significant step in the evolution of the company’s comprehensive door control portfolio Architects and specifiers will appreciate the range of finishes and enhanced colour-suiting in the new design, along with the products’ smooth operation and the availability of Environmental Product Declarations. With every possible application catered for, the new-look range in combination with other ASSA ABLOY architectural hardware offers numerous possibilities to create complete door opening solutions by design. Hayley Elwen, Business Development Director for Middle East and Africa said: “Architects spend their lives creating beautiful spaces for people to live and work in, so although they need a building to operate efficiently, they strive to ensure that all elements complement the overall design. Door closers are a critical component of modern buildings, so it is critical to make them more elegant and design-sensitive.” The high-quality, durable range, with the evolutionary ASSA ABLOY look, retains the same innovative and unique features as before. Incorporating Cam-Motion® technology, which enables smooth and secure door opening and closing, individual products also conform to CE standards and comply with the relevant fire regulations, where applicable. Close-Motion®, for example, is specifically designed to close doors quietly and securely, and is suited to any building where doors are difficult to close or noise disturbance is a nuisance, like hotels or hospitals. Free-Motion® enables doors to swing freely from an opening angle of 0 degrees, ideal for areas where increased accessibility is required. ASSA ABLOY’s extensive range of rack and pinion door closers also benefit from the new, modern look. For installers, the products remain as versatile as ever, with well-designed installation features and a choice of installation options. Flexible height adjustment and non-handed features enable quick and easy installation and reduce stock requirements. Hayley Elwen said: “We know that smooth operation and versatility are what customers want, but aesthetics also matter. When you see a good-looking door closer, you realise what a difference it makes. We want our products to blend in with today’s modern building designs and enhance an architect’s vision. The new range, both elegant to look at and excellent in operation, is designed to be all you need.” ASSA ABLOY, which draws on an 80 year-heritage in the door control industry, has responded to the fact that the look of a door closer is becoming an increasingly important factor in the buying decision, with selection increasingly likely to be made on the desirability of the design. To find out more about the range and its innovative design and problem-solving features, please visit www.assaabloy.co.za. ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying end-user needs for security, safety and convenience. Since its formation in 1994, ASSA ABLOY has grown from a regional company into an international group with about 47,000 employees, operations in more than 70 countries and annual sales of EUR 7.9 billion.