Construction work at the Blue line rail in Lagos State, Nigeria is at 95% complete. According to Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Ladi Lawanson, the rail line project spans on the mainland to Marina on the island. Mr. Lawanson further revealed that currently, the State government is also focusing on National Theatre-Marina segment which is at 65% complete. The ongoing construction work on the National Theatre-Marina segment include construction of pile caps, boring of piles, pre-inspection of pier positions to determine underground utilities as well as boring of piles across the Lagoon. Nonetheless, fabrication of steel cages and casing, painting of reinforcement with anti-rust, seawall strengthening and the removal of shipwrecks in the lagoon are on course while the bailey beams have been completed at Marina. According to the commissioner through the Lagos State Metropolitan Area Transportation Agency (LAMATA), the State has procured a Single Electric Unit (EMU) rolling stick of 2T+2M, in line with the current environmental considerations as the EMU is already on site awaiting final testing and certification. Lawanson confirmed that the state government has already received the Right of Way approval from the Federal Government for the 37km Agbado-Marina rail routes. Also read: Nigeria requires US $46bn to complete rail projects Meanwhile discussions are ongoing with Marina Express Train Services Ltd for its development, though the project development agreement of the company is currently being reviewed before the project kick starts. Lagos Rail Mass Transit also known as Blue Line rail is an urban rail system being developed and is currently under construction in Lagos State. Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) is managing the rail project. LAMATA is also responsible for regulation, policy direction, and infrastructure for the network. Phase I of the Blue Line project network was originally scheduled to be completed in 2011. After many delays caused by funding shortfalls, the opening date was re-scheduled to 2018.