Construction project management (CPM) is a specific application of PM discipline for construction project types that include agricultural, residential, commercial, institutional, industrial, heavy civil and environmental. The construction project manager specify objectives and plans, maximize resource efficiency, implement various operations, and develop communication and mechanisms, among others. Although the technology, institutions, and/or processes are different, CPM has many similarities in the management of projects in other domains and industries such as aerospace, pharmaceutical and software sectors. For instance, construction projects are required to reach an objective at a given schedule, budget and quality. In the same way, CPM also benefits in utilizing applications and tools that automate administration tasks, simplify estimating and billing, facilitate planning and scheduling, manage workload assignments, centralize document management, and promote real-time communication and issues resolution. Below are five PM software that are valuable in completing construction projects. CoConstruct is the #1 highest rated custom builder and remodeler software. It is a web-based and mobile project software for custom builders, remodelers and design-build firms, designed to help coordinate with your team, communicate with clients and trade partners, and control the chaos of custom building.The selections function makes change orders a breeze. It has a calendar feature that helps coordinate schedules and make sure deadlines are met. The comments section enables users to inform anyone involved in real time regarding updates, and many other features. Pricing plan starts at $99 per month. CoConstruct was founded in 2005. GenieBelt is an online construction project management software. It was designed and created by construction industry professionals who have become frustrated in having to tackle the same problems in every project. With the help of modern technology, cloud computing, and mobile apps, the software is enabling its users to quickly and effectively collaborate to regain control of their projects, save time and costs, and deliver satisfaction to its customers. Procore is a cloud-based CPM software designed specifically for the construction industry by Procore Technologies. It is designed to use the latest web technologies to provide a simple but secure cloud-based application. It can manage multiple projects, invite unlimited collaborators, and lets users monitor progress across devices. It is full of features including a change order system and a drawing management tool. It offers a simple flat-rate annual pricing depending on how the software will be used. 4. WorkflowMax WorkflowMax is a cloud-based worklow and job management software delivered as Software-as-a-Service. It is an end-to-end PM solution that has tools for leads, quotes, timesheets, job management, and invoicing. Pricing is at a convenient user per month basis, so it is easy to scale depending on the company’s business load. It is ideal for architects, building and construction professionals, surveyors and engineers, among others. It is an integrated workflow and PM toolkit that works well with Xero accounting software. BuildTools is a web-based construction management platform that manages communication, project schedule, budget, tasks, documents and more. It is for custom builders and remodelers, especially built for managing custom projects. It is accessible to any web-connected device. Scheduling conflicts are automatically brought to the builders’ attention. BuildTools is offered at a flat monthly rate and includes for unlimited use, projects, users and document storage. It is built by a privately held company based in Minneapolis, USA.