Promoter of Lekki Deep Seaport, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise (LPLE), has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with CMA CGM Group, a French container shipping giant to operate the future container terminal of the seaport. Recently, Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari flagged-off the construction of the US $1.5bn Lekki Deep Seaport, the first deep seaport in the country. On completion, the port will have  one dry bulk berth, three liquid berths, two container berths, 1,200-meter-long quay and 13 quay cranes which will have a capacity of 2.5 million TEUs, with 16-meter depth. CMA CGM now the official terminal operator will be responsible for operations, maintenance and marketing of the container terminal at Lekki Deep Sea Port through its subsidiary CMA Terminals. According to Navin Nahata, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Chief Executive Officer the agreement signing with the CMA CGM Group is a significant step towards the right direction in the actualization of the Port, which will become the deepest port in Sub-Saharan Africa. “We are excited about this development because CMA Terminals is a world class port operator and can be relied upon to provide international port standard delivery services at par with most modern ports around the world to the Nigerian port customers,” said Mr Nahata. Also read: Construction work kicks off on Lekki Deep Seaport in Nigeria On the other hand Farid Salem, Executive Officer of the CMA CGM Group said that they are pleased to sign the Memorandum of Agreement with LPLE to operate Lekki Port’s container terminal. “With CMA CGM’s unique service offering and expertise combined with our logistics and inland services, our presence in Lekki Port will benefit the entire Nigerian supply chain and market as well as neighboring countries,” he said. During the official flagging-off ceremony graced by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Federal Government of Nigeria also pledged a total support to the Lekki Port project . When completed, Lekki Port is expected to ease the unbearable congestion at the port of Lagos. Nonetheless, the project is fully in line with the CMA CGM Group’s development in the region. Additionally, Lekki Port’s container terminal will also allow the Group to develop its presence into West Africa’s first consumer market as well as serving as a transshipment hub, especially to the neighboring countries such as Togo and Benin. Known as the second largest shipping company in Africa, CMA CGM Group has assured the Nigerian government of its fully commitment in developing the port infrastructure. The Group has a network of 75 agencies and nearly 1,400 experts particularly in the sub-Saharan Africa.