Fibertex SA has appointed the Terrain Group as distributors for the company’s range of geosynthetic products in East Africa. “Through this distributorship agreement, the Terrain Group will supply Fibertex woven and non-woven materials in Uganda, Kenya, South Sudan (GOSS) and Rwanda. The local Terrain team will also provide a technical advisory, installation and support service to various industries in these countries, with a particular focus on civil engineering and building, the oil industry and on infrastructure projects,” says Lionel Kistan, export manager, Fibertex SA. An important advantage for the market in East Africa is greater accessibility to quality branded Fibertex Geosynthetic products, through the Terrain Group’s branch network. “The Terrain Group’s well-established position in construction plant, equipment and materials, is enhanced with the addition of the extensive range of Fibertex materials, which is manufactured according to stringent quality specifications. Fibertex UV stabilized virgin PP (polypropylene) geotextiles are the only non-woven geotextiles produced in Africa, with certification for durability of over 100 years, in accordance with the latest EN standards.” Fibertex UV stabilised virgin PP needle punched materials, with a strong elastic bonding between the fibres, are used in building and construction works for separation, filtration, drainage, protection, stabilization and reinforcement, as well as in the automotive, furniture and filtration markets. Virgin PP has specific application in areas where the textile may be in contact with alkaline conditions, for example in smiles dams, waste sites and coral based soils. These PP geotextiles have advantages in installations where the cost of failure may be extreme, in both financial and environmental terms, as they have a high level of chemical stability under a wide range of environmental conditions. In addition to the wide range of products made from virgin PP, Fibertex also has a range of products based on recycled Polyester (rPET). The Fibertex range encompasses non woven and woven geotextiles, gabions and mattresses, drainage pipes and fittings, as well as erosion control and cellular confinement solutions. The company also supplies soil reinforcing products, including geogrids and geocells, as well as geosynthetic clay liners (GCL’s) as part of composite lining systems in modern landfills. Global support from the holding company in Denmark guarantees the edge on product design, impeccable manufacturing standards, cost efficiency, safety and reliability of every Fibertex material. Together, Fibertex and the Terrain Group offer a technical support service, to ensure correct specification of durable and safe materials for high efficiency and durability, in every project.