Demag, one of the oldest crane manufacturers in the world established almost 200 years ago, has developed a new Double V-Girder crane which is capable of a 50T lifting capacity – four times that of the Single Girder. The double-girder overhead traveling cranes offer exceptional load capacity for a low dead-weight. Their outstanding crane geometry also provides for extremely good travel characteristics, which minimizes wear on the end carriages and crane runway. The load hook can be raised between the two crane girders, which allow large lifting heights to be achieved. The crane offers high long and cross-travel speeds thanks to high-performance double-girder design. The girders can be adapted to building structure requirements and has minimum approach dimensions thanks to the compact traveling hoist design. “Since the launch of the V-Girder in 2016, 60% of all our single girder cranes produced locally are now V-Girders”, said Richard Roughly, Senior Manager: Sales & Marketing at Demag South Africa. “They have revolutionized load handling”. Their innovative design featuring tapered diaphragm joints reduces oscillation frequency by 30%, cuts its weight by an average of 17% and doubles its service life to as many as 500 000 changes of load. The V-girder has significantly improved efficiency for handling loads and higher handling rates than conventional box-section girders. The revolutionary design enables sensitive loads to be positioned more precisely, carefully and also speeds up the process. It allows for particularly precise and careful positioning of sensitive and heavy loads. It improves efficiency and simplifies installation thanks to more lifting points. From a safety point of view, the V-Girder’s Surface area exposed to wind is reduced by up to 55%. It also offers a much improved view for the operator. “Our Eco-friendly utilization of re­sources is reflected by the use of less material, reduced drive output requirements, blast cleaning of metal parts with dry ice and the use of water-based paints,” Roughly adds.  “The possibility of energy recovery completes the concept. “These are just a few of the revolutionary features the V-Girder crane offers”. For more information phone 011 – 11 898 3500, 082 372 4747 or email richard.roughly@demagcranes.com www.demagcranes.co.za Demag is a major global player in the crane industry that originated in Germany and now has subsidiaries and many partner agencies all over the world. Demag has an almost 200 year old history, beginning in 1819 with the establishment of Mechanische Werkstätten Harkort & Co. in Wetter an der Ruhr. In 1840, Demag started manufacturing overhead traveling cranes, concentrating on the production of cranes and crane components at an early date, also including hoist units with an electric drive since 1910. Demag offers customers a complete range of cranes, drives and handling technology for every application – optimized by comprehensive sales and service. Demag is represented in 50 countries around the world and employs 6000 people. Demag has eleven branches in Southern Africa (Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, Durban, Cape Town, Witbank, Klerksdorp, Rustenburg,  Ngodwana, Uitenhage, Maputo and Richards Bay).