W. GIERTSEN Energy Solutions has opened a regional office in Nairobi as it seeks to tap into the fast-growing renewal energy industry in Kenya and the rest of Africa. The company is angling to play a major role in the solar energy sector by developing, supplying, commissioning and financing solar energy systems for off grid users and medium sized commercial and industrial consumers. Giertsen Energy Solutions is a subsidiary of the family-owned 140-year old, Bergen, Norway-based W.Giertsen Group. The company opened the Westlands, Nairobi office recently in a function attended by the global chairman of W.Giertsen Group, Wilhem Giertsen, a fourth generation descendant of the group founder. Other company’s executives present included group CEO Frank Mohn, W.Giertsen Energy Solutions Managing director Kari Fremme and Kenya Country Manager Deborah Ssempasa. Also in attendance was the Norwegian ambassador to Kenya Victor Ronneberg, Kenya Investment Authority CEO Moses Ikiara and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry vice chairman James Mureu. W.Giertsen Energy Solutions is a total energy provider specializing in solar energy systems, hall systems and solarised water pumps. It has supplied aid and relief agencies in Kenya, Somalia and across the world for decades. Chairman Giertsen said the company, founded in 1875, chose Kenya as a base because of Kenya’s culture of openness and friendliness, adding that he enjoys working with Kenyans. Mohn said the company has already supplied and installed 36 solar energy systems in East Africa since 2014, adding that the company’s products were of high quality and long life cycle. He said: “We won’t be the cheapest but we will give good value for money. The envoy, Ronneberg said the opening of the office is a testament of Norway’s confidence and faith in business environment in Kenya. He noted that that there was need for small and smart energy systems for Kenya, especially the remote, off grid areas. Ikiara on his part said Kenya provided a conducive environment and high return on investment for investors, noting that a recent study by American firm found that Nairobi gave the highest return on investment than any other city in the world, followed by Mombasa.