A 3.12 kwp off-grid Solar Photo voltaic rooftop power plant, donated by Building Energy, will produce about 5 MWh of energy every year, contributing to significantly reduce the building’s carbon footprint Building Energy SpA, multinational company operating as a global integrated IPP in the Renewable Energy Industry, has donated an off-grid Solar Photovoltaic rooftop power plant with a capacity of 3.12 kwp (DC) to the Italian Consulate in Cape Town. The plant, composed by 12 photovoltaic panels, will generate about 5 MWh of energy every year, contributing to significantly decrease the building’s carbon footprint, through reduced reliance on the National Grid. The beginning of operations has been celebrated today, on the occasion of the PV power plant’s inauguration, in the presence of Alfonso Tagliaferri, Consul of Italy in Cape Town, and Matteo Brambilla, MD Africa and Middle East at Building Energy. “We are excited for being here today to celebrate the inauguration of the solar rooftop system, developed by Building Energy for the Consulate of Italy in Cape Town. – said Matteo Brambilla, MD Africa and Middle East at Building Energy – We are also proud to be making our contribution in providing the building with a power plant to produce clean and sustainable renewable energy that can help the Consulate reduce its reliance on grid electricity”. “This Consulate of Italy is proud to partner with Building Energy for a project that will allow us to reduce our carbon footprint, as well as our electricity bills – said Alfonso Tagliaferri, Consul of Italy in Cape Town – I want to personally thank the company’s MD Matteo Brambilla, together with all his team, for having believed in this idea from the very beginning, notwithstanding the technical and administrative challenges it implied. This sponsorship’s importance is twofold: on the one hand it testifies the vitality and the competence of the Italian business presence in Cape Town; on the other hand it perfectly fits the global effort in fighting climate change initiated since 2012 by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the ‘Green Farnesina’ initiative, which sees the Ministry, together with several Italian Embassies and Consulates around the world, reduce their carbon footprint in a shift towards renewable energies, paperless workflow and recycling. From its Cape Town office, the company manages and coordinates over 40 projects that are operational and under development in Africa and the Middle East across the technologies of solar, wind and small-scale hydroelectric energy, including inter alia projects in South Africa, Uganda, Mali, Malawi, Cameroon and Cote D’Ivoire. In Kathu, in the Northern Cape, South Africa, Building Energy built an 81 MW photovoltaic plant, which has been operating since August 2014 and is one of the largest solar plants on the continent. Building Energy will soon begin the construction of a 140 MW wind project in Roggeveld, in the Laingsburg area between the Northern and Western Cape Provinces, which will generate approximately 600 GWh per year. Among the other projects that Building Energy will start constructing in the next 12 months, is a 5 MW wind farm in Klawer, two 5 MW photovoltaic plants in Skuitdrift and a 4.7 MW small-hydro project in Kruisvallei, in the Free State Province. Building Energy is a multinational company operating as a Global Integrated IPP in the Renewable Energy Industry on four continents. The Company is vertically integrated on the value chain, from the development of projects to the sale of energy. With a pipeline in 20 countries with over 2,600 MW and generative assets being built over the next two years for more than 700MW, the Company is positioned to be one of the major players on the international scene in the renewable energy field. For further information, visit the site www.buildingenergy.it. Press contacts: Building Energy                                Publicis Consultants Italia Maria Grazia Tiballi                         Barbara Rivolta – Alessandra Spagnolo Tel. +39 02 49527730                     Tel. +39 02 30353324 / +39 02 77336473 m.tiballi@buildingenergy.it           barbara.rivolta@publicisconsultants.it alessandra.spagnolo@publicisconsultants.it