A roof is one of the most difficult constructions in a house or building. Every surface demands a different knowledge. According to Auke Langstraat the Sales Manager at Liquid rubber Europe a supplier of a range of environmentally friendly liquid rubber coatings that can be applied in all kind of situations from the Netherlands, you have to know the exact construction before sealing it. Usually when you waterproof a roof, you also have to be aware of what you are sealing in. In many situations the right insulation and damp-proofing should be done before applying a roof sealant. Choosing the right roof sealant, whether the choice is being made by a DIY enthusiast or a construction professional, may be complicated, but getting it wrong can have grave consequences if the performance and longevity does not match the specifications of the job. Correct sealant application involves a diverse set of properties being understood by the specifier or purchaser, including cohesion, adhesion, reactivity, curability, movement capability, elasticity, stress resistance, climatic stability, flammability, and cost, to mention only a few. Therefore roof sealing should only be done by experts with the right roof knowledge. The quality Liquid rubber coatings of is unequalled, the application is easy and the protection is sustainable. It also has the following properties: Polysulfide sealants have been used for a very long time; they are elastomeric in nature. They are a bit more expensive compared to other options, but they have excellent resistance to weather exposure, allowing for a long life of about 20 years before cracking occurs. It also has longer curing periods. Preferably, this type of sealant would generally be applied over primed surfaces. Silicone is another commonly used option for roof coating. It possesses a wide range of formulations. These include: acetoxy-cure formulations, which are generally the cheapest, and oxime-cure formulations which are more expensive. Acetoxy roof sealants are not suited for metal surfaces due to corrosion, but they are able to resist discoloring which may occur from the UV exposure. Oxime-cure silicones are well suited for metals; they provide better adhesion, and resist different weather conditions, but they cannot resist discoloring after UV exposure. Silicone Sealants are not a good choice for areas that have substrates that release heat and oil, because they tend to weaken their adhesion. Polyether roof coatings are moisture-cure, and are more durable compared to the other roof sealant options. They have a good rate of adhesion, and can be applied in colder conditions without compromising the material. They have good weather resistance, are environmentally friendly, and are highly OSHA complaint. They are easy to apply, fast curing, and normally last for 20 to 30 years when applied properly. These types of coatings are solvent based and come in either aliphatic or aromatic types. The aromatic type is less UV stable than aliphatic. The coating has high abrasion resistance characteristics. It is therefore preferred in areas where there is high foot traffic on the roof or places that experience hailstorms. According to Rustom Saleh of Rust-Oleum a producer of special coatings for roofs, metals, cladding, floors and walls from the Netherlands; when it comes to choosing the right roof coating manufacturer, it is very important to compare products. Some sealants are better for certain jobs compared to others hence understanding and choosing the best applications will improve the life of whichever roof coating you choose. “By paying close attention to the options, you will be able to choose the material that best meets your needs,” he adds.  Contact our contributors (Netherlands) Rust-Oleum (Netherlands)  