Construction work on the Lekki Deep Seaport in Nigeria has kicked off in earnest after the project stalled for years. This is according to the management of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise. Upon completion Lekki Deep Seaport will be one of the most modern ports, supporting the burgeoning trade across Nigeria and the entire West African region; providing the connection to the global shipping network. Acting Director General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) Chidi Izuwah said during the inspection of the project that the Federal Government and the 36 states are expected to earn about US $361bn as revenue when operation begins at the sea port in Lagos. The port construction is being carried out by two major companies:China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (CHEC), the engineering and construction arm of China Construction and Communication Company (CCCC) and Louis Berger Group, USA. “We are working tirelessly in conjunction with China Harbour Engineering Company to deliver a port which will be a state-of-the-art, model deep sea port, not only in Nigeria but in sub-Saharan Africa,” said Izuwah. Also read: Completion of Lekki Seaport in Nigeria slated for 2019 Apart from the Lekki Deep Seaport, Nigeria is also planning the construction of another port in the southern part of the country. Ibom Deep Seaport will be situated in Akwa Ibom state within a licensed free trade zone. Promoters of the project have already started looking for investors to help in its construction. When fully developed, the container terminals will be able to accommodate up to 13 New Panamax Class container vessels and two very large feeder vessels. However, a report released mid last year appeared to cast doubt on the viability of port projects in West Africa with Lekki port being one of them. The report from a consultancy firm, Drewry, observed that most sea port projects across the West African region are now in uncertain waters amid a change in the location and nature of transshipment hubs serving the market.