HTC Superfloor is the revolutionary flooring concept with a technique that makes concrete more than just strong and hard-wearing. The technique is as simple as it is ingenious. HTC’s machines and diamond tools grind and polish concrete floors to remove the surface paste and expose the stronger concrete beneath. The result of this process is a stronger, more durable, shiny and beautiful floor. According to Richard Hugh of Superb Flooring Systems, the sole distributor for HTC Superfloor products in South Africa, the benefits of grinding and polishing a floor this way is that it will far out live any other type of floor toppings, and it will also be far more durable and cost effective. Floors are an important part of everyday life, in both industrial areas and private residences. But as well as looking good, a floor needs to be functional too. Mr. Andreas Hasselmose the Sales Manager for Superb Flooring Systems adds that, the reason why HTC Superfloor stands out when compared to the rest is because the glossy concrete surface is not just aesthetically pleasing, it also brings a host of other benefits too. Strong floor, strong bottom line HTC Superfloor is an extremely economical option for all types of business activities. Compared with traditional methods for concrete floors or epoxy, for example, HTC Superfloor offers unbeatable durability. The processed construction concrete has an unlimited lifespan, i.e. the same as the lifespan of the building. The initial investment is the same, or lower, than for traditional flooring solutions, but the low maintenance cost and the longer lifespan make HTC Superfloor the most lucrative investment option. The life cycle cost is about 60% less than for traditional flooring solutions. And using the Twister method of cleaning, you’ll find your floor is simple, environmentally-friendly and cost-effective to maintain. HTC Superfloor offers more than just a chance to have a hard-wearing, high-gloss floor. You can also add colour of your choice to the concrete floor, without losing any of the floor’s excellent qualities. You might want to bring colour to the entire floor or simply incorporate an eye-catching company logo. Concrete is composed of pure natural materials. The coatings that are often applied to the concrete have an adverse effect on the environment. HTC Superfloor uses as much as 30 times less energy than traditional flooring solutions. HTC Superfloor is available as four different concepts. Platinum, Gold, Silver and Bronze. This means you can choose between a floor with a matt surface finish or a high gloss finish. What all four of the HTC Superfloor concepts have in common is that they are functional, economical, eco-friendly and aesthetically appealing. Platinum produces the glossiest finish and is the concept we normally recommend to our customers. It involves more grinding stages than the other concepts. The result is an unbeatably durable floor. Truck wheels and substances leave no marks on the glossy surface and light reflects gently off the floor. Using the Gold concept, you do not grind as deep into the concrete as with Platinum. This means that less ballast is exposed. Just like the other concepts, Gold then involves polishing the floor with Finer HTC Diamond Tools to achieve a gloss that is almost as brilliant as a Platinum finish. Gold produces a floor with excellent resistance to marks from truck wheels, etc. HTC Superfloor Gold is ideal for concrete floors that are already even and level. The Silver concept is a version of Platinum. Using this concept, you grind as deep into the concrete as with Platinum, but do not polish it. The ballast is exposed as with Platinum. Silver is therefore excellent if you want a floor with a matt surface finish. Bronze is the concept with the least number of grinding and polishing stages. This concept does not involve exposing the construction concrete. Instead, the top layer of the surface paste is polished but not removed. This process creates a stronger surface paste with a shiny finish. The resistance tests conducted, both on floor joists and on concrete slabs on the ground, show that HTC Superfloor complies with the SS-EN 61340-5-1 standard. Measured values fall within the range for the international IEC standard and the American ANSI/ESD standard too. Walk-around tests with ESD shoes generally produce low or no static. The limits stipulated in the standard for the handling of electronics have not been exceeded by HTC Superfloor in any cases. For more info contact: sales@superfloor.co.za