Epoxy flooring systems are resin based industrial flooring systems which provides unique features. They are very hygienic due to their seamless feature, durable, easy to clean and easy to apply hence reduced downtime. As well they provide exceptional abrasion and chemical resistance features Epoxy coating provides outstanding qualifications that make it prefarable to other flooring options. These include: Epoxy coated floors are highly resistant to just about everything: gasoline, oil, transmission fluid, bleach, chemicals used for cleaning, just to mention a few. This is one of the factors that makes them a very popular choice in the auto industry, and particularly in garages. While withstanding chemical spills is a huge plus, epoxy floors are also resistant to heat and water. It repels oils, beads water, and wipes clean, creating a surface that is seamless and smooth. Epoxy resists all chemicals and temperatures without any damage to the material. In addition, epoxy floors are highly resistant to germs and bacteria, making them easy to sanitize and hygienic to use. This makes them a great choice for hospitals and other clinical settings. Epoxy floors are not just a solution reserved for warehouses and dull industrial zones. Epoxy flooring can also be used to provide an attractive aesthetic for decorative floors. Not only is epoxy available in a wide array of colors, but it also adds a flawlessly smooth, elegant quality and shine to the existing floor. Epoxy can also be combined with paints and colors to help mask chips and cracks in the existing floor. The floors can also be arranged into patterns and designs, allowing you to make a number of choices in an economical way to improve the ambiance of a workplace or home. Patterns can also be used to create unique driveways and other walkable areas. The price of epoxy per square foot is difficult to beat when compared to other flooring options. Since epoxy can be installed directly over other flooring types such as concrete, the installation costs tend to be lower than its alternatives. Of all the advantages of epoxy flooring, its price point is one of the immediate and significant. Moreover since epoxy floors are durable and last for a long time, additional costs are saved on replacement and maintenance. If you are looking to coat large areas at an affordable price while still maintaining great quality and little to no maintenance, epoxy is the best way to go. Epoxy coating tends to last much longer than other types of flooring. It can last for several decades without any need for maintenance or repair, and without peeling or cracking, if installed properly in the beginning. Floors coated with epoxy are able to resist considerable wear over long periods of time, and once the epoxy converts to a solid polymer, it becomes very strong and resistant to all chemical breakdown. Epoxy coating protects the underlying floor from all kinds of damaging effects such as cracks, stains, grease, moisture, and heat. Epoxy coating is great for eliminating the costs that creep up for floor maintenance by protecting the floor from becoming damaged or compromised in the first place. There will be no need for carpeting, grouting, or other maintenance. Epoxy flooring is a great solution for floors that need to last a long time without requiring additional work or attention, not to mention it provides excellent protection for the floor beneath the coating. According to Duygu Vodina a Managing Patner at Polinova one of the leading companies in Europe in epoxy applications from Italy, the African market is a rising area for construction chemicals and like all foreign markets it has some characteristics and difficulties. “For the flooring sector,implementation is a very important part of the coating system. For this reason,our duty does not end when we sell out the products. We should also follow our distributors and keep them always educated,” he affirms. Mr. Vodina further adds that, while purchasing epoxy products, technical data sheets and company references should be searched carefully. Because the formulation is very important in such kinds of construction chemicals, technical spects become more important. Moreover, finished projects will give an idea of  the quality and standards of the material.  Contact our contributors (Turkey)  