Multiple brightly coloured floor finishes applied across RCL Foods’ Durban office. RCL Foods installs Flowfresh SR Ultra, Peran SL Fruity and Peran STB in its new facility. Each floor has been chosen to meet the specific criteria of a different space in the building. The large-scale, international food producer RCL Foods injected vibrancy and energy into its new Durban office by installing a selection of brightly coloured resin floor finishes from Flowcrete South Africa. As one of Africa’s leading food producers, responsible for a number of household brand names, it is vital for RCL Foods to portray a high-end image at all times – and getting the appearance of its office right was critical to this. Also Read: Flowcrete South Africa Opens New Durban Warehouse Located in Westville’s Westway Office Park, the new building was designed to provide a creative environment using materials that would also meet the specific demands of each area. This design ethos included specifying a variety of floors that would cleverly meet both the aesthetic and operational demands of the site. This was most evident in the building’s Test Kitchen. A focal point of the new office, the kitchen needed to be both a visually stunning showroom as well as a practical area for cooking. To achieve this, 311 m2 of Flowfresh SR Ultra in a bespoke blue that matched RCL Foods’ corporate colour was installed to link the space to the visual identity of the business. Flowfresh SR Ultra was ideal for the task at hand, as it is a very durable polyurethane system that is able to survive the temperatures, spillages, chemicals and impacts inherent to a busy kitchen environment. This HACCP International certified system provides the highest possible hygiene levels by incorporating the antibacterial additive Polygiene® within the floor, enabling it to eliminate up to 99.9% of bacteria in contact with the floor finish. To extend this colourful interior design scheme across the building, 272 m2 of Peran SL Fruity flooring was supplied for the 18 male, female and disabled toilets. This system allowed the designer to use an extensive palette of colours, including Tomato, Kiwi, Grapefruit, Tangerine, Spearmint and Plum, so that no two toilet facilities were the same. The seamless and impervious nature of Peran SL Fruity makes it quick and easy to clean, helping to ensure that the floor maintains a fresh and unblemished appearance. The robust credentials of this self-smoothing epoxy system means that it will withstand the foot traffic, cleaning chemicals, scuffs and scrapes that it will inevitably be exposed to. To guarantee that visitors and staff would be immersed in a colourful and energetic environment from the second they set foot in the building, a decorative floor was installed in the lift lobby on each level of the building’s three-storey car park. 378 m2 of the epoxy resin floor coating Peran STB in a sleek, dappled grey colour was applied in the lobby areas to provide a pleasant transition from the car park to the office. This combination of floor finishes meant that RCL Foods could rest assured that its new office would have a vivid, contemporary and on-brand surface underfoot that would be able to withstand the various challenges that such a busy and unique office space would throw at it. For Flowcrete South Africa’s contact details please visit www.flowcretesa.co.za/contact-us or contact Daniel Ash at Flowcrete Group’s Marketing department on +44 (0)1270 758 702 or email dan.ash@flowcrete.com. Flowcrete Africa has offices in Durban, Johannesburg, Cape Town and Nairobi and is one of the five divisions that make up Flowcrete Group Ltd. Flowcrete Group Ltd. is a member of Euclid Group, which is made up of multiple construction chemical brands of subsidiaries of RPM International Inc. A world leader in the manufacture of seamless industrial and commercial resin floor, wall and coving solutions as well as other specialist coating technologies, Flowcrete Group has international manufacturing facilities in the Americas, Europe and Africa as well as Central and South East Asia. Flowcrete supplies world-class seamless flooring solutions to transform environments across the globe including; decorative seamless resins, waterproof car park deck coating systems, seamless resin terrazzo, durable antimicrobial flooring, corrosion protection, self levelling underlayments, underfloor heating and now underfloor acoustic insulation. Flowcrete’s ambitious and dedicated team, led by President Craig Brookes, is inspired by excellence in people, products and service as well as continual innovation and sustainable growth. Flowcrete continues to use its global expertise to introduce environmentally friendly, hygienic and aesthetically attractive floors to create a better and more sustainable world. For further information please contact +27 31 461 3411. Or visit us on the web at www.flowcretesa.co.za