Aggreko has announced that it has started to supply stable power, using 28 MW of its HFO-generated energy. The occasion was marked by the attendance of President of Madagascar, Hery Rajaonarimampianina, Prime Minister, Olivier Solonandrasana and Minister of Water, Energy and Hydrocarbons, Lantoniaina Rasoloelison. Aggreko has provided power to Madagascar for a number of years. This new installation – NOOR 2 – will run alongside Jovena’s NOOR 1 turbines, as part of an extension to a 50 MW agreement with the country’s national utility company, Jirama. Aggreko has developed a best in class HFO energy generation solution, comprising containerized mobile, modular energy generators that can be configured and deployed in weeks. The company’s HFO offering has lowered the total cost of energy for Jovena and brings cost effective, reliable and uninterrupted electricity to the 1.4 million residents of the island’s capital, Antananarivo. Jovena’s managing director, Benjamin Memmi, welcomed the president to the official switch-on, along with Aggreko’s managing director for Africa, James Shepherd. “We’ve been working in Madagascar for a number of years, and installing this new HFO plant was a natural extension to our existing site,” said Mr Shepherd. “We know that providing stable and reliable power enables people, communities, and businesses to thrive. It is an exciting time for us, Jovena and the entire island of Madagascar, and we are delighted to be here today to officially celebrate our partnership.” Aggreko is the leading global provider of mobile, modular power and heating and cooling, with nearly 10 GW of power in its fleet worldwide. Utilities, mining and manufacturing are its major areas of expertise, where it provides reliable and cost effective power packages, using the available resources, including diesel, HFO, gas and renewable energy, including battery storage. The company was founded more than 50 years ago and is renowned for the speed with which it brings power online, for its efficient power plants, mini-grids, emergency response, its industry-leading safety record and its commitment to employing and training a local workforce in the areas in which it operates. https://www.aggreko.com/en-eastafr/news/2018/global-news/january/aggreko-is-proud-to-help-jovena-provide-stable-power-for-madagascar