Pergo invented laminate floorings more than 3 decades ago. Today, a brand like PERGO with 35 years of milestone experience in the market reacted for the cause of Manufacturers Meet Africa in Casablanca, Morocco. PACCI (Pan Africa Chamber Of Commerce) for the first time endorsing the event MMA – 2018 which is the hub for all aspects of construction & building materials in Africa & unique opportunity to gain unprecedented access into the biggest projects in the market. Also Read: PARADOR to attend Manufacturers Meet Africa 2017 TraiCon Events Pvt ltd. Is a business procurement platform specialised in connecting the right buyers with potential manufacturers in focus markets. TraiCon is a company specialised in formulating sales driven platforms which are focused on bringing the best-in-class project holders and manufacturers together in an exclusive and captivating environment to do business through Manufacturers Meet Africa. Pergo specialized in creating a better floor that held up to the needs of modern homes, from shoe scuffs to party to pets. They manufacture every product by considering four principles like Outstanding Durability, Easy Installation, Beautiful Styles and Outstanding warranty to approve the product to reach the customer. From the start of 1981 to 2017 the invention of laminate floor revamping every year by developing beautiful, easy-to-install floors with superior surface wear and scratch protection so that might be a reason to considered as most preferred consumer brand. As the largest US laminate flooring manufacturer and a producer of premium hardwood floors, they take pride in producing unsurpassed products backed by superb warranties and unmatched customer service. You can find their products at home improvement stores and in more than 5,000 specialty retailers in North America. Confirming one of world’s best flooring company – Unilin/Pergo for Manufacturers Meet Africa 2018 is yet another step towards ensuring the most potential suppliers are given the opportunity to supply to the African market. “We totally believe that the requirements posed by the project holders, pertaining to flooring will be most certainly met. We look forward to hosting Unilin/Pergo in Casablanca.” – Mr. Melwin Andrew (Business Head – EMEA & India).  