·         Flowcrete South Africa’s new warehouse has been designed to put the customer first. ·         Based in Westmead, Durban, the new facility is significantly larger than the previous warehouse. ·         The site includes also includes a new office and product showroom. Flowcrete South Africa has moved to a new, larger warehouse and office facility in Durban in order to provide a more customer focused service. The resin flooring manufacturer’s warehouse operations were previously based at its factory in Jacobs, Durban, but since 3rd January 2018 this work has taken place at its new premises in Westmead, Durban. The address of the new warehouse is: Unit 10 Gillitts Industrial Park, 32-35 Gillitts Road, Westmead, Durban, The move was central to Flowcrete Africa’s development and growth strategy, which includes adding Euclid Chemical and RPM Belgium Vandex construction chemical solutions to its product offering. These products are available thanks to the fact that Flowcrete Africa is part of Euclid Group. Formed in 2016, Euclid Group consists of multiple construction chemical brands of subsidiaries of RPM International Inc., including Euclid Chemical, Eucomex, Cave, Viapol, Toxement, Key Resin, Flowcrete, Elmico and RPM Belgium Vandex. The new warehouse and office building is in line with Flowcrete Africa’s ‘customer service centre’ policy, as it is a very customer focused facility that includes a showroom of its products. This showroom brings the Durban office in line with Flowcrete Africa’s facilities in Cape Town and Kenya. Being in Westmead, the site is also a convenient central location for customers to collect stock from. The warehouse staff, plus customer services, sales and marketing, are all based at the new site, with all factory, production and finance functions still based at Flowcrete Africa’s plant in Jacobs. The new Westmead warehouse provides 1,240 m2 of space, which is a significant increase when compared to the previous 700 m2 warehouse. Including office space, the new site’s floor area totals 1,400 m2.The warehouse floor was refurbished using the epoxy resin coating system Flowcoat SF41 in Mid Grey, with demarcation in Forest Green applied for the walkway. A chevron design in red and white was also applied at the entrance to the dispatch and receiving area.