Tatu City is planning to construct a high end estate in its 5,000-acre land in Kiambu County. The new estate will rival that of Muthaiga and Karen which are considered some of Nairobi’s leafy suburbs. The mega project has been divided into residential land in a way that apartments, whose construction is ongoing, will be constructed closer to the road, followed by bungalows and villas on half and a quarter-acre plots. Additionally, deep inside will be the proposed exurb that will constitute homeowners on more than one acre each. Also Read: US $14m dispute interferes with construction works at the mega Tatu City Rendeavour is the American firm that is developing Tatu City, they own more than 30,000 acres (12,000 ha) of land in the urban growth trajectories of major cities in Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria, Zambia, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Nick Langford, country head for Rendeavour confirmed the reports and said that while they focus on the first two segments, they also have plans for an exclusive neighborhood. Tatu City is aligned with the vision of the Nairobi Metro 2030 Strategy, and also part of Kenya’s Vision 2030. Tatu City is a 5,000-acre, mixed-use development with homes, schools, offices, a shopping district, medical clinics, nature areas, a sport & entertainment complex and manufacturing area for more than 150,000 residents and tens of thousands of day visitors. Schools and businesses are already open at Tatu City, and a range of houses are under construction to suit all incomes. Tatu City represents a new way of living and thinking for all Kenyans, creating a unique live, work and play environment that is free from traffic congestion and long-distance commuting. Underlying Tatu City’s design is a visionary concept aiming to shift urban development in Kenya from the familiar single node model to a decentralized urban environment. By doing so, Tatu will significantly de-congest the City of Nairobi by offering a unique live, work and play environment for an estimated 100,000 residents and 30,000 day visitors.