Contractors and municipalities looking for ways to increase efficiency might want to consider the updated BOMAG BW 138 AD-5 tandem vibratory roller, known for its large drum diameter and high compaction force. A 54.3-inch rolling width makes short work of granular soil and asphalt compaction on projects ranging from parking lot paving to county road repair to compaction of urban street developments, according to BOMAG. And when equipped with the intuitive Economizer compaction measurement system, the BW 138 AD-5 alerts operators to compaction progress of the soil or asphalt material. That reduces passes, which saves time and money, the company says in a press release. While Economizer is technically an option, it’s seen more as standard feature today. According to BOMAG, the vast majority of contractors order the BW138AD-5 with Economizer, showing the importance of this compaction monitoring system to the market. Economizer requires no calibration to reliably deliver real-time compaction progress, the company says. As the degree of compaction increases, the more LED lights on the light strip illuminate and indicate when optimum compaction is achieved. The system also warns operators of potential over-compaction to prevent aggregate fracturing as well as allows for the identification of “soft” spots in the material, BOMAG says. Here are some updates and highlights of this roller: A 35.4-inch drum diameter delivers more drum impact area with the surface than with smaller compactors, which can reduce rolling resistance, deliver smoother surface finish and improve asphalt mat quality, BOMAG says. With its 0.020-inch amplitude and average linear load of 86.6 pounds/inch, the BW 138 AD-5 deeply penetrates asphalt and granular soil base materials. Front-only, rear-only or front-and-rear vibration mode operation allows the operator to adjust machine compaction output to the jobsite conditions. A pressurized water spray system with five-step interval timer lengthens operating time between refills of the roller’s high-capacity, 81.9-gallon tank. Dual water filtration at the inlet helps to prevent spray nozzle plugging, and the quick-attach nozzle design helps to facilitate servicing and quick replacement. Protected to help prevent wind deflection, the five spray nozzles provide uniform coverage across the drum’s width to prevent material pick-up, too, the company says. Other features: