Construction work on Kampala City roads has finally kicked-off. For the last couple of years, Kampala residents have been grappling with traffic congestion which is partly blamed on potholes on various roads. However, there is a sigh of relief following the implementation of numerous road projects in the city, which are currently taking shape. Bakuli-Kasubi road which stretches from Bakuli to Namungoona and Kulambiro-Ring Road are currently being constructed under the second Kampala Institutional and Infrastructural Development (KIIDP-2). The projects, which are being rolled out in the divisions of Kampala Central, Nakawa, Makindye, Kawempe, and Rubaga have since excited both city residents and motorists as the newly constructed roads have sidewalks for pedestrians. The US $183.7m project is funded by the World Bank and the government of Uganda and is being implemented by Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA). The project is scheduled for completion in five year time. According to Ayub Kaweesa a taxi driver, every taxi driver pays about US $331 annually as road user fees to KCCA. Also read: Uganda signs US $94.52m road construction deal “We have for a long time been questioning why they do not construct roads yet we pay taxes; but with the new roads, we shall no longer worry about congestion,” he added. Mr Andrew Kitaka, the KCCA Director of engineering and technical services, said that the KIIDP-2 project will see all major roads and junctions constructed in the city. Other roads set for construction are Nakawa-Ntinda road, John Bahiha (Acacia) Avenue, Kabuusu-Bunamwaya-Lweza and Lukuli roads. “All the new roads will have traffic lights fitted with cameras to curb crime in the city and all junctions will be signaled. Kampala has for long been grappling with bad roads but with this project, the road network will improve,” said Mr Kitaka. KCCA has installed traffic lights on Fairway Junction on Yusuf Lule Road, Bwaise junction on Mambule Road, Kabira junction on Kiira Road and on Makerere Hill Road. The installation of the new traffic lights comes at a time when the city is grappling with traffic jams partly caused by lack of signalized junctions in the Central Business District (CBD).