From the new ECDriveS® 24 V drive system for light-load conveyor technology, to its latest DRN series of IE3-compliant motors, and the customised LTP-B Eco Drive for pump and fan control in a range of niche sectors from HVAC to underground mining, SEW-EURODRIVE South Africa will have a major presence at bauma CONEXPO Africa 2018. National Sales Manager Norman Maleka comments: “Our aim is to offer complete solutions, as opposed to simply being a component supplier. Our expertise, experience, and extensive project track record stand us in good stead in this regard.” Describing bauma CONEXPO Africa 2018 as an ideal platform to target potential end users of its diverse products, in a wide range of industrial sectors, Maleka says that visitors to the SEW-EURODRIVE stand will be able to see its latest products in action, including a mini conveyor set-up and transfer station. This latest innovation from the drive and automation technology leader, comprising a modular driven roller and gearmotor, boasts a 20% higher power rating and overload capacity. An integrated encoder allows for accurate positioning, with intelligent centralized or decentralized motor control, improved service life and durability, and future-proof Ethernet networking. Additional features include precision ramp-up, zero-pressure accumulation, merger and tracking, torque-on-demand, automatic configuration and sensor recognition, diagnostics, and an IP54 protection rating. End users for the new drive system range from OEMs to system integrators and specific applications such as packing houses and even automotive manufacturers. The latest DRN series of IE3-compliant motors from SEW-EURODRIVE South Africa will also be displayed at bauma CONEXPO Africa 2018 as part of the OEM’s ‘total solutions’ approach. “Not only do we keep our customers up to date about all of the benefits of our latest innovations, we also advise on application-specific requirements. The customized LTP-B Eco Drive for pump and fan control in a range of niche sectors from HVAC to wine farms and even underground mining will also be on display, showcasing SEW-EURODRIVE South Africa’s proactive approach to meeting its customers’ needs and setting new benchmarks in all of its markets in terms of quality, cost-effectiveness, and energy-saving. Visit SEW-EURODRIVE South Africa in Hall 5, Stand D30 at bauma CONEXPO Africa 2018 from 13 to 16 March 2018 at the Johannesburg Expo Center. See https://www.bcafrica.com/ for further information. 