Lagos State governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode has approved the extension of the ongoing reconstruction of the Oshodi-International Airport Road to Ladipo Auto Spare Parts Market along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway. Speaking during an inspection of the ongoing projects across the state, Ambode said the extension is intended to complement the Airport Road reconstruction in line with the regeneration of the entire Oshodi axis. The governor also inspected the ongoing construction of roads around Ladipo market and further called on traders to leave the road to enable the contractor to complete the projects. “I promise you I will also do a pedestrian bridge at Toyota Bus Stop. So, the contractor that is doing the Airport Road will commence work on the bridge on this road next week if you allow me. I don’t want to inconvenience you but I have come to appeal to you; just be patient with us; we will bring growth and development to this place,” the governor said. Responding on behalf of the traders, Vice President of the market, Mr. Jude Nwankwo, commended the governor for delivering on his promise to transform the axis. He gave the assurance that they would cooperate with the government and vacate the roads to enable the contractor complete the project on schedule. Also read: Nigeria to cancel remodeling contract of Port Harcourt Domestic Airport “We would cooperate with you, we do not have any reason to do otherwise, because all that you have promised to do, you have done it. More so, we are all beneficiaries of all the good work you are doing in Lagos,” Nwankwo said. Ambode also inspected the ongoing construction of the Oshodi Transport Interchange where he was briefed on the level of work done so far by the contractor and Managing Director, Planet Projects, Mr. Biodun Otunola. He also inspected the ongoing construction of roads, walkways, laybys and solar powered streetlights in Agboyi Ketu Local Government Area expected to be completed within two weeks. While responding to an appeal by some of the residents for the construction of a market in the area, the governor promised to collaborate with the local government to see the possibility of acceding to the request. Besides, the governor and his team also inspected the ongoing construction of the Eko Theatre in Oregun Ikeja, one of the five theatres currently under construction across the state, assuring that the adjoining land space would be converted to a recreation centre for children and a car park.