Fibertex geosynthetics solutions encompass Controlled Permeability Formwork (CPF) liners, designed for concrete surface enhancement in bridges and tunnels, marine structures, water treatment plants, drinking water tanks, as well as dams and sluices. Main functions of Formtex® CPF liners are to improve the durability of the concrete structure, extend its service life and to reduce maintenance costs. Formtex is a two layer CPF liner, consisting of a drainage layer that allows water and air to escape and a filter layer with a pore size designed to retain cement particles. When surplus water and air is drained from the surface of the freshly poured concrete during compaction, the water/cement (w/c) ratio in the concrete cover is reduced. This results in a denser and stronger concrete, with a blemish- free surface. “An exciting project for the global organization, Fibertex Nonwovens, is the supplier of 1 800 000mᶟ of Formtex CPF liners, to ensure high quality and durability of concrete being used in the world’s largest bridge projects, currently underway in Kuwait,” says Clive Hitchcock, CEO, Fibertex SA. “Formtex CPF liners are being used in the casting of the actual concrete elements of the 36 km concrete bridge being built across the bay between Kuwait City and the Subiyah region. “Degradation of concrete structures is normally accelerated by the effects of salt water, high temperature and increased CO2 levels in the air. However, Formtex design features will ensure that project requirements, demanding a service life of concrete of more than 120 years, are adhered to. “Formtex CPF liners, which are suitable for the rounded shape of concrete elements, are being used in the casting of both bridge pillars and bridge spans to ensure high quality, durability and low maintenance of the concrete elements that need to withstand this highly aggressive environment.” Formtex also reduces the formation of blowholes and other blemishes on the concrete surface that normally require extensive deburring after the formwork is removed. The smooth, dense and strong concrete cover is dust-free and because there are no release agents, it is an ideal prepared base for further surface treatment or coatings. Formtex CPF liners, which reduce micro bacterial growth, are a highly efficient alternative to slip agents for fresh water supply structures. CPF liners also minimise the penetration of graffiti media, making it easy to remove from a surface. Formtex is designed for tensioned, glued or self-adhesive mounting to vertical or inclined surfaces. Once Formtex is attached, concrete casting is performed as usual. These liners can easily be removed from the concrete during formwork striking. The Fibertex geosynthetics range encompasses nonwoven and woven geotextiles, gabions and mattresses, drainage pipes and fittings and erosion control and cellular confinement solutions. The company also supplies soil reinforcing products, including geogrids and geocells, as well as geosynthetic clay liners as part of composite lining systems in modern landfills. Fibertex products are manufactured to consistent quality standards at all six production facilities globally and are supported by a technical advisory and back-up service. Fibertex SA, which celebrates 50 years of business this year, manufactures the only nonwoven UV stabilised virgin PP geotextiles in Africa, with certification for durability of over 100 years.