The Uganda Solar Energy Association (USEA) is hosting an off-grid solar exhibition in Kampala Uganda, where more than 40 local and international solar companies are showcasing solutions for lighting off-grid homes and businesses at an exhibition in Kampala soon. The show, with the support of USAID and Power Africa, is a side event at the Africa Energy Forum, which is also happening at the Kampala Serena Hotel. Also read:Kenyan firms to get US $75m funding for solar power plants projects Only 5% of Uganda’s population is connected to the national grid. This means that, to meet their energy needs, many of those who do have access to electricity are employing off-grid technologies such as distributed power and solar home systems. Energy minister Irene Muloni and US ambassador to Uganda Deborah Malac will check out the exhibition booths as well as deliver addresses. UK High Commissioner Peter West and Power Africa officials will also be there. Also read:29.3 million people to benefit from AFDBs power plan by 2020 The exhibition will demonstrate the opportunity that solar systems present for the economic growth and transformation of It will be open until 4:00pm local time. Uganda’s per capita electricity consumption of 157 kilowatt hours (kWh) is considerably lower than the sub-Saharan Africa per capita average of 552 kWh and
the global per capita average of 2,472 kWh. By 2020, the government aims to achieve a national electrification rate of 30% through new on- and off-grid connections, and to increase per capita consumption
to 578 kWh. Power Africa, a US Government initiative aims at expanding electricity access and generation capacity in sub-Saharan Africa by adding more than 30,000 megawatts and 60 million new home and business connections. Meanwhile, Energy Africa is an initiative led by the UK Government. It has been working closely with other development partners and the Ugandan government to support the growth of the off-grid solar market through the establishment of a suitable enabling environment.