The government of Ghana is set to start the feasibility study for the construction of the railway line from Kumasi to Paga which will link up with neighboring Burkina Faso. Meanwhile, the government has completed its official pre-feasibility engagements. The six months study will provide information regarding the construction of the line, known as the Central Spine in Ghana’s railway blueprint. It is expected to include a comprehensive survey and map out the right-of-way to assist with the development of a business case and attract private sector interest in the project. A consortium led by Vision Consult Ghana Limited will undertake the studies regarding the Central Spine from Kumasi to Paga. Other partners in the consortium are Gauff Ingenieure and ILF Consulting Engineers, both from the Federal Republic of Germany. Also read: Railway sleepers factory to be constructed in Ghana The consortium was procured through a competitive tendering process in-line with the Public Procurement Act, 2003 (Act 663) as amended in 2016 (Act 914) of the Republic of Ghana. As an important greenfield rail development project, Sector Minister Joe Ghartey strongly believes there is the need to undertake a feasibility study to determine the economic, financial, social and environmental viability of the proposed 595km rail corridor between Kumasi and Paga. The development of the project, which is in-line with the Railway Master Plan completed in 2013, will improve rail and logistics infrastructure as part of an integrated transport network in Ghana. It will also help to improve services to customers and reduce the cost of transportation, especially in trade to and from the hinterland and the Northern regions of Ghana, as well as the Sahelian countries. At a recent meeting held in respect of the Study, the consortium led by Professor Kwasi Kwafo Adarkwa expressed their readiness to start work, saying they had all their technical experts in place. The meeting was with high level officials from the Ministry of Railways Development, Ghana Railway Development Authority and Ghana Railway Company Ltd. under the chairmanship of Deputy Minister for the Ministry, Hon. Andy Kwame Appiah-Kubi.