Side-by-side with Kenya’s largest construction show, the inaugural edition of the Renewable Energy Expo East Africa will run from 7 to 9 November at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi. A new event dedicated to East Africa’s multi-billion dollar renewable energy market will debut alongside Kenya’s largest building and construction event, The Big 5 Construct East Africa 2018. The launch edition of the Renewable Energy Expo East Africa, organized by dmg events Middle East, Asia & Africa, will run from 7 to 9 November at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre in Nairobi. “Electricity demand in East Africa is projected to triple by 2030. Investment in renewable technologies will be essential to the strategic diversification of the energy sources needed to meet this demand,” said Muhammed Kazi, Portfolio Event Director at dmg events. “While investment activity is already evident in East Africa, we’re launching the Renewable Energy Expo to offer a platform where supply can meet demand face-to-face. Our event will ensure the regional market has access to the latest products and technologies emerging from this fast-changing and thriving sector,” added Kazi. By sitting alongside The Big 5 Construct East Africa, the Renewable Energy Expo will take maximum advantage of the synergy between the renewable energy and construction sectors, while reaching a wide audience of professionals specifically exploring new products and technologies. To make it easier for exhibitors and visitors to connect, the Renewable Energy Expo will feature five sectors, each one dedicated to a particular facet of renewable energy: solar, wind, hydro, geothermal and energy storage. Utilities engineers, PV contractors, project developers, energy consultants, solar technicians, grid operators and other professionals seeking renewable energy solutions will be able to source products and services, meet suppliers and discover innovations and trends, all at a single three-day event. As with many of the brands from dmg events’ portfolio, the Renewable Energy Expo will also feature a free-to-attend and certified workshop program to update attendees on the latest trends and best practices, as well as offer insightful business intelligence. Dedicated to renewable energy, the interactive workshop presentations will be delivered by industry thought-leaders and professionals ready to share ideas and spark constructive debate. With successfully established renewable-focused events in the Middle East, including the Global Solar Leaders’ Summit and The Big 5 Solar, dmg events has a track record of attracting key industry participants in the sector. To know more about the Renewable Energy Expo East Africa (7-9 November 2018, Kenyatta International Convention Centre – Nairobi), visit www.thebig5renewableenergyexpo.com