Komatsu has introduced the latest model of its PC238 tight tail swing excavator, saying the machine offers higher productivity yield and a new camera system to enhance an operator’s jobsite awareness. The new PC238USLC-11 is powered by a 6.69-liter Komatsu SAA6D107E-3 engine producing 167 net horsepower. The engine employs Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR), a diesel particulate filter (DPF) and Selective Catalyst Reduction (SCR) with diesel exhaust fluid (DEF) to meet Tier 4 Final requirements. Komatsu says the SCR catalyst does not require maintenance and is designed to match the life of the machine. Engine performance is improved through a new viscous fan clutch which reduces parasitic load, while an auto idle shut down feature reduces nonproductive engine idle time and reduces operating costs, the company says. Komatsu says the PC238USLC-11 achieves up to 4 percent more productivity than its predecessor, the PC238USLC-10. “The PC238USLC-11 maintains the tight tail swing radius of its predecessor, making it well suited for utility and highway applications working in confined spaces,” Andrew Earing, product manager, tracked machines, Komatsu America, says. “The machine’s contoured cab profile and sliding door allows the cab to swing within the same radius as the counterweight. The additional counterweight remains standard, giving the PC238USLC-11 equal or better lift capacity than conventional models in the same size class.” The new machine features six working modes (P, E, L, B, Att-P, Att-E) and offers energy saving guidance through the display in the cab. This display also provides access to all KOMTRAX telematics data and is the home of the rearview camera display. Speaking of cameras, the PC238USLC-11 is the first Komatsu machine to feature the company’s new KomVision camera system. The company says KomVision offers operators a “birds-eye-view” by stitching together the images of three cameras into a surround-view image of the machine. We’ll have more details on this new system next week. Inside the cab operators will find a new standard high-capacity, high-back, heated air-ride seat. Other cab features include: For ease of maintenance the machine features same side, ground-level access to engine oil and filters, fuel, DEF fill and air filter and swing-out coolers.