The supporting program for bauma CONEXPO AFRICA gives both exhibitors and visitors a comprehensive overview of the technologies of the future. The focus will be on networking and communication between specialists from various fields. The African and international construction and mining industries will get together at the trade fair for construction machinery, building material machines, mining machines and construction vehicles at the Johannesburg Expo Centre, South Africa, from March 13 to 16, 2018. Visitors can get a first look at the new machinery, systems, and solutions on an exhibition area of 68,000 square meters. “bauma CONEXPO AFRICA is the largest trade fair of its kind in Africa and offers numerous innovations and interaction opportunities,” says Stefan Rummel, Managing Director of Messe München GmbH. More than 400 exhibitors and around 20,000 visitors, including delegations from Botswana, Chile, Ethiopia, India, Kenya, Mozambique, Nigeria, and Zambia, are expected at bauma CONEXPO AFRICA. The focus of the third edition of this trade fair will be on networking and communication between specialists from various fields. In the demo area, located between hall 5 and the open-air grounds, selected exhibitors will give live demonstrations of their machines and equipment. Industry experts will be able to experience the technical innovations first hand. The speakers’ corner provides visitors the opportunity to engage with exhibitors regarding the latest developments in the industry through presentation and case studies. The North American-based Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM), joint venture partner of bauma CONEXPO AFRICA, is bringing to the show tech talks with top representatives from renowned businesses and universities. The recorded sessions were first presented at AEM’s CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2017 exhibition. The topics discussed will range from the smart construction site, with the use of robots, to technologies for building resilient and sustainable infrastructure. The development of the world’s first 3D-printed excavator, designed at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), US Department of Energy, in Tennessee, will also be presented during the tech talks. Pre-registration with benefits Visitors can register now at www.bcafrica.com/registration. With pre-registration, visitors get free entry to bauma CONEXPO AFRICA on every day of the trade fair. Accreditation for journalists for bauma CONEXPO AFRICA is now available online. More information about the trade fair is available at www.bcafrica.com bauma CONEXPO AFRICA With an exhibition area covering 68,000 square meters, bauma CONEXPO AFRICA, the International Trade Fair for Construction Machinery, Building Material Machines, Mining Machines and Construction Vehicles, is the biggest event for the sector in Africa. 616 exhibitors from 42 countries and 14,300 visitors from 75 countries came to the last bauma CONEXPO AFRICA in September 2015. bauma CONEXPO AFRICA is held every three years; the third event will take place at the Johannesburg Expo Centre (JEC) from March 13 to 16, 2018. Construction machinery trade shows of Messe München Organizing trade shows for the international construction machinery sector is a core competence of Messe München. Its portfolio includes not only the world´s leading trade show, bauma in Munich, and the brand event bauma CHINA in Shanghai – it also cooperates with the Association of Equipment Manufacturers (AEM) in the organization of bauma CONEXPO INDIA in Gurgaon/Delhi and bauma CONEXPO AFRICA in Johannesburg. In December 2015, Messe München expanded its portfolio by purchasing CTT which is named now bauma CTT RUSSIA. Further in March 2017, the trade fair organizer increased the bauma network again by gaining the license of the second largest trade fair in South America, M&T Expo, as well as the licenses of the Brazilian shows M&T P&S and Construction Expo. Messe München is one of the leading exhibition organizers worldwide with more than 50 of its own trade shows for capital goods, consumer goods and new technologies. Every year, a total of over 50,000 exhibitors and around three million visitors take part in more than 200 events at the exhibition center in Munich, at the ICM – Internationales Congress Center München and the MOC Veranstaltungscenter München as well as abroad. Together with its subsidiary companies, Messe München organizes trade shows in China, India, Brazil, Russia, Turkey, South Africa, Nigeria, Vietnam and Iran. With a network of associated companies in Europe, Asia, Africa and South America as well as around 70 representations abroad for over 100 countries, Messe München has a global presence. AEM is the North American-based international trade group providing innovative business development resources to advance the off-road equipment manufacturing industry in the global marketplace. AEM membership comprises more than 950 companies and more than 200 product lines in the agriculture and construction-related industry sectors. AEM is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with offices in the world capitals of Washington, D.C.; Ottawa, Canada; and Beijing, China. AEM has an ownership stake in and/or manages several world-class exhibitions, including CONEXPO-CON/AGG, one of the world’s largest gathering places for the construction industries.