Construction works on US$ 68m Old Mint Park in South Africa have commenced; this is according to South African property developer, Atterbury. The project which is a prime industrial development neighbouring the landmark South African Mint and fronting the N1 highway entails the development of a new 65 000 metres squared industrial park and is a joint venture between Atterbury and Old Mutual Properties. Atterbury Development Manager, Mr. Derrick Pautz confirmed the reports and said that earthworks for this development started in December 2017 and the business units are expected to be completed and available for occupation by the end of this year 2018. “Old Mint Park has been well received by the market. Fortuna Food has already signed the first lease at the business park for a 2 000 metres squared unit. They will start trading from their new facility from October,” Pautz highlighted. The park is centrally located between Midrand and Centurion with the first building under construction being a business unit development offering premises ranging from 500 metres squared to 2 500 metres squared in a single 10 000 m2 building. Concurrently constructed with this is a second building of 4 500 m2 of warehouse and office space. Old Mint Park is also located directly opposite the future Samrand Gautrain station and adjacent to the future K220 road, which is incorporated into its master plan. “Old Mint Park’s prime position in a major established and growing business node central to the Gauteng business hub makes it a great asset for business. It benefits from excellent connections to major transport routes, sweeping highway visibility and convenient surrounding residential, education and healthcare facilities,” said Pautz. Over 23 years, Atterbury has developed prime commercial, retail and residential property across South Africa, the rest of the African continent and more recently, Europe. Atterbury Property Holdings is the operational company in the Atterbury Group. This holding company consists of development, corporate services and asset management divisions.