Aiming at becoming a regional aviation hub, Lanseria International Airport in South Africa has embarked on an ambitious project to increase the capacity of its facilities. One of the facilities is the new Control Tower Complex. Located in Randburg in South Africa’s Gauteng Province, Lanseria International Airport has its vision set on becoming the regional airport of choice, catering for the SADC and Sub-Saharan African region. It aims to increase passenger numbers to more than four million per annum by 2023. The upgrades and expansion of its current facilities are instrumental to this growth forecast. Recently, the Lanseria International Airport unveiled a new Control Tower complex that offers the capacity required for this international aviation hub to meet increased passenger and aircraft traffic demand. The Control Tower complex accommodates Air Traffic and Navigation Services (ATNS), South African Weather Services (SAWS) and Aerodrome Rescue and Fire Fighting Services (ARFFS). The position of the complex is ideally located to improve visibility of the runway and surrounding airfields, as well as accessibility for emergency response. “The facility is more than a building that offers additional space for the operations that it will accommodate – it represents our commitment to levelling up and expanding for the growth that we forecast for the future of Lanseria International Airport,” comments Rampa Rammopo, CEO of Lanseria International Airport. “The massive investment in improving and extending transport infrastructure at Lanseria International Airport gives new meaning to its vision of becoming the regional airport of choice in Africa. This is consistent with the 25-Year Integrated Transport Master Plan (ITMP25) of the Gauteng Department of Roads and Transport. In the foreseeable future, Lanseria should position itself as a significant City Airport, with extended services and scheduled flights to key destinations and cities in sub-Saharan Africa,” adds Gauteng MEC of Roads and Transport, Dr Ismail Vadi. Gauteng Provincial Government remains committed to growing the province’s economy through strategic partnerships. Lanseria International Airport plays an important role as one of the province’s aviation hubs. So, the airport’s growth and expansion ties in very well with the province’s vision of remaining the economic hub. To meet some of the demands for the region, expansion plans for the airport include the construction of the three level Multi-Storey Parkade currently underway, as well as the expansion of the terminal building and upgrades to the airport’s fuel farms and technical facilities. In the coming years, more than R10 billion of private sector funding will be injected into the establishment of the new Airport City in Lanseria, reveals Gauteng Premier, David Makhura. “We are investing massively in improving access and the movement of people, goods and services into and out of the West Rand region. The new economy of this area will be anchored specifically on the development of new economic nodes around the Lanseria Airport. The Gautrain will reach the Lanseria Airport to connect all our major cities in Gauteng. The future is unfolding in front of us. We are building new cities in Gauteng.” Rammopo discloses that, meanwhile, that talks are underway with international and local airlines to develop regional routes to countries such as Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Mozambique and Mauritius. “With our Control Tower now more ideally located with improved visibility of the runway and airfields, the opportunities for us to progress our Masterplan has become far more viable.”