On Wednesday, January 31, 2018, RIEGL became the proud recipient of the 2017 MAPPS Geospatial Products and Services Excellence Award. This prestigious award was bestowed upon the RIEGL miniVUX-1UAV miniaturized LiDAR sensor for unmanned laser scanning in the Technology Innovation category at the 2018 MAPPS Winter Conference! The RIEGL miniVUX-1UAV is a user-friendly and cost-efficient device to acquire survey-grade measurement data by use of remotely piloted multi-rotor, rotary-wing, or fixed-wing UAVs for a variety of applications. The RIEGL miniVUX-1UAV provides high speed data acquisition using echo signal digitization and online waveform processing, based on RIEGL’s sophisticated Waveform-LiDAR technology. Its excellent multiple target capability achieves superior measurement results, the 360° field of view allows complete acquisition of the environment, and its well-designed housing supports mounting, even with restricted weight and space requirements. My-Linh Truong, ULS / UAS Segment Manager at RIEGL USA, states, “The response of the miniVUX-1UAV LiDAR sensor introduction to the commercial UAV market has been overwhelmingly positive. The flexible and compact nature still maintains the high- performance LiDAR excellence that RIEGL is known for in the surveying and mapping industries. The miniVUX system enables our clients to easily expand or enhance their services in the ever growing and evolving geospatial marketplace.” The MAPPS awards competition recognizes the professionalism, value, integrity, and achievement that member firms have demonstrated in their projects and technology developments over the previous year. RIEGL is an international leading provider of cutting edge technology in airborne, mobile, terrestrial, industrial and unmanned laser scanning solutions. RIEGL has been producing LiDAR systems commercially for almost 40 years and focuses on pulsed time-of-flight laser radar technology in multiple wavelengths. RIEGL’s core Smart-Waveform technologies provide pure digital LiDAR signal processing, unique methodologies for resolving range ambiguities, multiple targets per laser shots, optimum distribution of measurements, calibrated amplitudes and reflectance estimates, as well as the seamless integration and calibration of systems. RIEGL’s various 3D scanners offer a wide array of performance characteristics and serve as a platform for continuing ”Innovation in 3D” for the LiDAR industry. From the first inquiry, to purchase and integration of the system, as well as training and support, RIEGL maintains an out-standing history of reliability and support to their customers. Worldwide sales, training, support and services are delivered from RIEGL’s headquarters in Austria, main offices in the USA, Japan, and China, and by a worldwide network of representatives covering Europe, North and South America, Asia, Australia, and Africa. For more information, visit www.riegl.com