The National Water and Electricity Company (NAWEC), has signed a 30MW power supply contract with Turkish Company, Karpower. The contract is a mutual agreement that will last for 2 years. According to the Minister of Energy Fafa Sanyang, the agreement is a milestone drive for the government to provide reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply to the people of the Gambia. Since the Gambia gained independence, the energy sector continues to be a major challenge. This has prompt the government to recognize the urgency to transform and modernize the energy sector and have a lasting solution to the energy problem. Minister Sanyang said the signing of the contract is a short-term plan to improve capacity on the energy sector roadmap. The objective is for NAWEC to rehabilitate, repair and maintain the implementation of ongoing projects that will eliminate the energy constraints. The Managing Director of NAWEC Baba Fatajo said NAWEC and partners want to provide a durable solution to the energy constraints. The contract with Karpower, will formalize the commencement of work for the installation of the 30MW rental plan for injection into the power grid as a short term measure. Among the challenges that NAWEC faces include lack of adequate resources to invest in the energy sector, generating huge losses as a result. Such contracts will help the Company to improve in service delivery. Mehmet Katmer from Karpower said the contract requires them to work together with NAWEC to achieve the common goal of delivering a sustainable utility service to the Gambia people. He said the navigable energy supply will be used for the energy supply and this will arrive in Banjul in three weeks; that together with their local partner, NAWEC, supply should start in seven weeks; that Karpower is confident to fulfill by supplying as agreed and provide a successful energy supply. The Chairman of the board of directors of NAWEC, Aki Allen, said the agreement will bring hope to the Nation’s Utility organization as an emergency power supply in the country. The injection of 30MW into the system will go a long way to stabilize the energy supply for the nation. This deal is collaborative effort of NAWEC, the Government of the Gambia and stakeholders. The board will also task NAWEC to increase on efficiency in operation and service delivery. 