The construction sector in Morocco is experiencing a sharp growth on the back of government investments that seek to meet the needs of a rising population, according to the “Morocco Construction Market Outlook” report. The latest report from the BNC Network for The Big 5 Construct North Africa 2018 reveals that key market drivers are the urban construction sector, which represents 55% of all construction projects across Morocco, and the utilities and transport projects, accounting for over 40% of total investments in the construction industry. “In 2017, the total estimated value of active projects in Morocco had increased by around 9.2% compared to the previous year. Today, there are over 200 active construction projects with a combined estimated value of USD 49.8 billion” reveals Event Director for The Big 5 Construct North Africa, Muhammed Kazi. He continues, “Like the construction sector in Morocco, The Big 5 Construct North Africa exhibition is expanding. In 2018, we will have even more local and international exhibitors, and almost four times the number of educational workshops we had last year. The event will be a truly unmissable platform for all those industry professionals that want to embrace the growing business opportunities in Morocco and the wider region.” Running from 10 to 12 April at the Parc des Expositions de l’Office des Change in Casablanca, The Big 5 Construct North Africa 2018 will host over 170 exhibitors from across the MENA region, Europe and Asia, enabling local distributors to engage in a wealth of new and broad partnerships. Exhibitors will showcase across five product sectors: Building Interiors, Building Materials & Tools, MEP Services, Concrete & PMV and Windows, Doors & Facades. The second edition of the event will also feature more than 40 free-to-attend CPD (Continuing Professional Development) certified workshops covering themes of Design & Sustainable Urban Development, Infrastructure & Project Management, and Technology & Innovation. The sessions will provide attendees with professional development points – or PDU’s – that can be added to their profile through their trade associations. Almost 3,000 Moroccan construction professionals visited the launch event in 2017, sourcing innovative construction products from 24 exhibiting countries. The event also offered 24 hours of networking opportunities, more than 200 meetings as part of its global meetings program, and 11 free to attend and CPD certified educational workshops. Organised by dmg events Middle East, Asia & Africa, The Big 5 Construct North Africa 2018 edition is expected to draw over 4,000 industry professionals at the Parc des Expositions de L’Office des Changes in Casablanca from 10 to 12 April 2018. Visitors can now prepare for the event beforehand by browsing the 2018 exhibitor list online. The list details who you can expect to find at the event, their company profile and their product brochures. Following the huge success of its first edition, The Big 5 Construct North Africa is coming back to Morocco from 10 to 12 April 2018 at the Parc des Expositions de L’Office des Changes in Casablanca. The second edition of The Big 5 Construct North Africa will feature five events under one roof, with the new dedicated product sectors: Building Interiors, Building Materials & Tools, MEP Services, Concrete & PMV, and Windows, Doors & Facades. Almost 3,000 Moroccan construction professionals visited the launch event in 2017, sourcing innovative construction products from over 170 exhibiting companies, and attending 11 CPD-certified and complimentary educational workshops. The Big 5 Construct North Africa, organized by dmg events Middle East, Asia & Africa, is part of The Big 5 portfolio of construction events, the largest in the Middle East.