Most of the construction site accidents have to do with lack of safety leading to falling from heights. As such, it is important to know how to keep safe while working at heights. Wearing protective garments will not help you when you fall and break your neck. Before using the aerial work platform, the operator should visually inspect the equipment. First he must check hydraulic tank, hoses and cables. User must have these third party inspection and confirmation reports on suitability of platforms to safety and work conditions,updated regularly according to machine producer company. Also read: 5 safety tips for your facility’s construction project Before every operation, you should  control trucks’ wheels, headlights and brake system . Ensure the emergency  systems and controller levers  are operational both visually and by means of hand. Safety warning plates and stickers on Machinery must be legible. The  platform ID Plate which enables the tracking of platform by producer must also exist on machine. Ensure balance outriggers are open and safety sensors and warning lamps controlled to check if they are correctly working. From the turret control station, check the platform functions. Before testing basket control station it is advisable to try emergency control and  platform controller functions. There is another important control  for higher platforms. Higher platforms must include Moment Control  and Area Control  system and/or  wind speed control system to enable platform to stay in safe working range. These functions are  supplied by load sensors, angle & length sensors. These sensors must functionally tested and if there is screen , there must be a warning on the screen, also audio signal output must be observed. Your equipment may include additional  properties related to your demands. These could include hydraulic oil cooler, operator cabin heater, moveable operator cabin, extendable basket, basket-turret intercom systems, Electric sockets on turret and baskets, Radio remote controller…etc. Depending on properties included on your product, you should do prior inspections before use of equipment. 