Nigeria has put in place plans to promote clean energy. Power for All, US Global Development Lab, Power Africa, USAID-Nigeria, as well as FHI360 – a new taskforce, will be driving access to modern, clean and affordable electricity. The collaboration was under the Scaling Off Grid Energy (SOGE) Grand Challenge for Development, a partnership upon which the 20 million households in sub-Saharan Africa countries could gain access to modern clean energy. Decentralized Renewable Energy (DER) solutions, which can be used to achieve this objective, range from stand-alone systems to mini-grids and mobile solar farms. They are readily available, affordable and immediately deployable. The taskforce is a coordination group formed to identify and implement a multi-stakeholder approach to accelerating the end of energy poverty in Nigeria, further adding that its goals include identifying priorities, supporting specific stakeholder-led actions that will accelerate the expansion of off-grid energy in Nigeria. This is in line with the goals and vision of the Nigerian government’s commitment towards increasing power access in Nigeria and increasing the rate of electrification to rural areas. Also read:Mauritius and Italy to collaborate in renewable energy projects According to Roseann Casey, the Nigerian lead for Power Africa, Power Africa’s approach is based on partnership. “We value the opportunity to be part of this important dialogue with diverse stakeholders who are eager to find both opportunities and solutions in the off-grid space.” Christina Blumel of FHI 360, said they are very happy to have the opportunity to work with Power for All in launching the Task Force as well as to seeing the engagement and enthusiasm around DRE in Nigeria. According to the President of the Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria, Segun Adaju, the DRE taskforce is coming at the very right time to support scaling of off-grid energy. It will support in removing the barriers that have held back the adoption of off-grid power by bringing the relevant stakeholders.