A fast-growing and popular tourist destination in Morocco welcomes a new state-of-the-art wastewater facility that will cater for current and future development needs Set amid rolling hills and facing the Atlantic Ocean, the town of Aourir in Morocco is a popular destination for tourists wanting to experience Morocco’s beaches and golf resorts. With an expanding local population, as well as a thriving tourist industry, the town required a wastewater treatment facility to meet current and future development needs. Biwater has completed the construction of a new wastewater treatment plant that will serve 60,000 local residents and existing hotels. However, the plant has also been built to cater for future needs with a design horizon of 2030 and a total treatment capacity of 19 million litres per day (MLD). Across the town there are clear indications of the city’s expansion plans; new hotel chains and resorts are mid-way through construction and other sites have been earmarked for future projects. Located next to prime surf spots and areas under development, key requirements for the project were strict odour control processes and the tertiary treatment of wastewater for reuse applications. Up and running, the plant now provides reuse water for green planted areas around the town, hotels and golf courses. Yassine Laib, Country Manager, Morocco, commented on the project’s success saying, “This project sets a new benchmark for Morocco, providing a turnkey wastewater and reuse solution. It has been built in a beautiful town, and as a plant it also looks impressive and in keeping with its surroundings. The water from the plant exceeds treatment quality standards, ensuring that surfers and swimmers on the beaches alongside are not impacted.” Biwater provides large-scale water and wastewater solutions for clients across the world. Since its inception in 1968, Biwater has gained recognition for its innovative approach aimed at overcoming the world’s most pressing water-related challenges. Throughout its history, the company has grown to meet the demands of many water-stressed countries and their burgeoning populations. It has a successful record of accomplishment, having completed over 25,000 projects in over 90 countries – financing, consulting, process engineering, designing, constructing, operating, maintaining and owning water facilities – in both rural and urban environments. Biwater, through its Group and acquired companies, has been involved in over 300 water infrastructure and construction projects spanning the African continent over a period of 86 years, with the first regional project recorded in Egypt in 1932. Since this time, Biwater have been bringing the benefits of water infrastructure solutions and project finance to countries across Africa, gaining an unparalleled track record. www.biwater.com