Volvo has added a variety of technological advancements to its new DD110C double drum asphalt compactor. The 10-ton-class compactor, which will be formally introduced at the World of Asphalt show in March, features an optional Compact Assist with Density Direct, which provides real-time density data displayed on a 10-inch touchscreen. The system prevents operators from over- or under-compaction and allows them to react quickly to the density results, rather than waiting for a nuclear gauge or core sample. With the onboard display’s Impact Spacing Meter, the operator can control the compactor’s speed and maintain the correct impact spacing, even when following a paver traveling at 60 feet per minute. The DD110C runs on a 148-horsepower Volvo D4 Tier 4 Final engine and delivers 3,800 vibrations per minute. Another advancement comes with the optional 8-amplitude drum, which allows various settings to accommodate a variety of jobs. “For thin lift applications, lower amplitude prevents over-compaction,” Volvo says. “For thicker lifts, higher settings ensure compaction occurs deep within the material in as few passes as possible.” The company says the DD110C’s large diameter drums provide a smooth, high-quality mat finish, and the drum eccentrics can be set to continuously rotate in the direction of travel, preventing any pushing or shoving of the material. The DD110C also features an automatic, variable-interval water spraying system with dual spray bars, dual water tanks, dual water pumps and triple filtration. The system prevents material pickup in water-burst mode – dual spray bars operating at full flow for two drum rotations. The operator can also use the new water flow-rate calibration process to set the minimum flow required. Operators can tap into Volvo’s ActiveCare Direct telematics service, which provides around-the-clock machine and fleet monitoring and is free for the first year. Other features on the DD110C include a rollover and falling-object protected platform, forward-view, adjustable seat, 180-degree rotating console, ergonomically positioned controls and noise and vibration insulation. It also comes with Volvo’s Lifetime Frame and Structure Warranty, which covers the frame and articulation joint for the life of the machine under the initial owner, the company says.