A new state-of-the-art wastewater facility that will cater for current and future development needs has just been completed in Morocco by the multinational UK Company, Biwater. The new wastewater treatment plant is set to serve 60,000 local residents and existing hotels. However, the plant has also been built to cater for future needs with a design horizon of 2030 and a total treatment capacity of 19 million litres per day (MLD). Also Read: Orascom Construction signs US $320m to Build Wastewater Treatment Plant in Egypt Across the town there are clear indications of the city’s expansion plans; new hotel chains and resorts are mid-way through construction and other sites have been earmarked for future projects. Yassine Laib, Country Manager, Morocco, confirmed the reports and said that the project sets a new benchmark for Morocco, providing a turnkey wastewater and reuse solution. It has been built in a beautiful town, and as a plant it also looks impressive. “The water from the plant exceeds treatment quality standards, ensuring that surfers and swimmers on the beaches alongside are not impacted,” he added. Located next to prime surf spots and areas under development, key requirements for the project were strict odour control processes and the tertiary treatment of wastewater for reuse applications. Up and running, the plant now provides reuse water for green planted areas around the town, hotels and golf courses. Set amid rolling hills and facing the Atlantic Ocean, the town of Aourir in Morocco is a popular destination for tourists wanting to experience Morocco’s beaches and golf resorts. With an expanding local population, as well as a thriving tourist industry, the town required a wastewater treatment facility to meet current and future development needs. Biwater, through its Group and acquired companies, has been involved in over 300 water infrastructure and construction projects spanning the African continent over a period of 86 years, with the first regional project recorded in Egypt in 1932. Since this time, Biwater have been bringing the benefits of water infrastructure solutions and project finance to countries across Africa, gaining an unparalleled track record.