As part of an official visit to Cameroon last week, Harriett Baldwin MP, Minister of State for Africa, visited Cameroon’s water utility corporation (Camwater) showing support for Biwater’s project in Cameroon. Mr. Gervais Bolenga, Director General of Camwater graciously hosted the visit at Camwater’s Headquarters in Douala. During the meeting, Mr. Bolenga outlined the importance of the project and thanked the Minister for the British Government’s support. Together with Camwater and Biwater representatives directly involved in the water supply project, Mr.Rowan Laxton, the British High Commissioner attended the meeting. “The support of UK Government and UK Export Finance was extremely well received by all those gathering in Douala last week. It remains clear that Biwater’s solution will benefit communities across the country for years to come, providing them with improved access to potable water,” said Giles Jackson, Regional Director for Africa, Biwater. The Cameroon Urban and Semi-urban Water Supply Scheme will provide drinking water to key population centres across central and southern Cameroon to address potable water shortages. Biwater provides large-scale water and wastewater solutions for clients across the world. Since its inception in 1968, Biwater has gained recognition for its innovative approach aimed at overcoming the world’s most pressing water-related challenges. Throughout its history, the company has grown to meet the demands of many water-stressed countries and their burgeoning populations. It has a successful record of accomplishment, having completed over 25,000 projects in over 90 countries – financing, consulting, process engineering, designing, constructing, operating, maintaining and owning water facilities – in both rural and urban environments. Biwater, through its Group and acquired companies, has been involved in over 300 water infrastructure and construction projects spanning the African continent over a period of 86 years, with the first regional project recorded in Egypt in 1932. Since this time, Biwater have been bringing the benefits of water infrastructure solutions and project finance to countries across Africa, gaining an unparalleled track record.