First unveiled at World of Concrete 2016, John Deere says it has filled out its G-Series lineup of skid steers and compact track loaders with the unveiling of two new SSLs and one new CTL at World of Concrete 2018. The new 320G and 324G SSLs, and the 325G CTL are mid-frame machines designed for a wide range of applications. Deere spokesman Gregg Zupanic says the new machines are aimed at customers who need the productivity and technology found in the large-frame models “but in a more compact package and at a lower price point.” In fact, these machines feature the same pressurized cab as their large-frame G-Series brethren, the 330G and 332G SSLs, and the 331G and 333G CTLs. However, Deere has altered the cabs on the mid-frame machines by reducing their width and weight for fitting on more confined jobsites and project areas. These cabs include heated seats, Bluetooth radio, a rearview camera and an LED lighting package. Operators can choose between standard manual foot and hand controls, and (EH) ISO joystick controls that can be switched between ISO- and H-patterns. Performance package options are also available for adjusting drive system response, boom and bucket speeds, or for setting creep mode on demand, Deere says. “Inspired by extensive feedback from a diverse range of customers in our Customer Advocacy Group, these machines are affordable, easy to operate, easily transported and offer unparalleled versatility with a multitude of attachment options,” Zupanic says. Deere says the machines, specs of which can be found below, are powered by Yanmar engines (from 69-74 horsepower), and boast increased performance and higher pushing power than previous generations. The company notes that all three new mid-frame machines “are capable of loading a 10-foot sidewall dump truck or hopper.” Ride control and bucket self-level are are available options for reducing material spillage and allowing for a smoother ride over rough or uneven terrain. The machines feature a footwell for easier debris management and removable cab-side windows for cleaning. The machines also feature an in-cab boom lock-out system for safer maintenance when the boom is raised.