Rapid International Ltd (County Armagh, Northern Ireland) has recently supplied Kasco Construction Ltd (Mwanza, Tanzania) with a new Rapidmix mobile continuous concrete mixing plant for production of mine backfill within a mine in the North Mara region of Tanzania. KascoMining and Construction Ltd is a subsidiary of the larger Kasco Group, located in Tanzania, Africa and established in 2005. Originally a micro equipment hire contractor, Kasco Group has grown to be one of the leading mining, concrete, infrastructure and earthworks contractors in the Tanzanian construction and mining sector. Kasco’s primary business activities include construction of heavy traffic roads, drainage, road maintenance, pipe lines and culverts, as well as total solutions in mining, drilling, construction and earthworks services. The Group also provides long distance haulage and transportation across regional countries. Kasco purchased the Rapidmix 400CW mobile continuous concrete mixing plant for production of mine backfill in Tanzania, for one of Africa’s largest mining organizations. Mine backfill is the process by which material is used to fill the voids/cavities created by mining excavations. If the voids are left unfilled, this can create instability not only for extraction of adjacent pillars underground, but also above ground, leading to subsidence. Mine backfill makes effective use of waste rock extracted during the mining process by reusing it as aggregate within the backfill mix. There are typically four types of mine backfill: Dry Fills, Cemented Rockfill, Hydraulic Sandfill and Paste Backfill. Kasco selected to utilize a Cemented Rockfill as the backfill type. Cemented Rockfill is comprised of waste rock mixed with cement slurry to improve the bond strength between the fragments of rock. In terms of mix design, Cemented Rockfill contains cement slurry concentrations at typically 55% by wt. and a mixture of coarse (<150mm) and fine (<10mm) aggregates. In this application the Rapidmix 400 CW mobile continuous concrete mixing plant mixed a pre-graded aggregate, cement and water to produce the backfill. With outputs of 400TPH, the Rapidmix machine enabled Kasco to deliver faster and more efficiently on the project. Using their own fleet of Volvo dump trucks alongside the Rapidmix 400CW mobile continuous mixing plant, Kasco were able to complete the backfill process faster, resulting in less delays in the mining cycle resulting in saved time, manpower, and money. Jarlath Gilmore, Sales and Marketing Director – Rapid, commented, “we were pleased to have supplied Kasco with a faster and most efficient solution to their mine backfill production requirements. Kasco were highly satisfied with the Rapidmix capabilities and the cost savings achieved.” The Rapidmix 400CW plant produces high quality controlled mixtures for utilization in a range of applications – from airport runways and contaminated land treatment to dam construction and soil stabilization. The mobile nature of the plant combined with the technically advanced design, is most advantageous in meeting the supply and demand requirements on projects. The Rapidmix provides a cost effective solution for on-site projects where high specification compliance coupled with a high volume fast throughput are essential. Fully mobile and self-contained, the Rapidmix 400CW is a complete plant powered by its own power source, with on-board compressor and generator. Fitted with a self-erecting system, using hydraulics, the plant can change from travel mode to fully operational within a few hours. Available with outputs of up to 600 tonnes per hour, the Rapidmix provides feed rates that are fully adjustable for the aggregate, cement and water systems. The Rapidmix 400CW incorporates full weighing options for all materials – aggregates, cement and water – offering record keeping that is automated, precise and detailed. Established in 1969, County Armagh based Rapid International delivers high quality, reliable equipment to the concrete, construction and environmental industries. Today, with a presence in more than twenty countries worldwide via an ever expanding international dealer network, Rapid is a trusted partner to a wide variety of customers ranging from multinational construction groups to small concrete producers. RAPID IS A GLOBAL LEADER IN THE MANUFACTURING OF: Rapid’s vast experience over the last four decades ensures the highest quality design and manufacture of all equipment. Quality, reliability, efficiency and technological advancement are the greatest aims of Rapid’s workforce, based at its impressive 50,000 sqft production facility and headquarters in County Armagh, Northern Ireland. Always innovating, Rapid’s emphasis on product development is driven by the needs of its wide reaching customer base, and the company’s in-house technical team consistently strive to meet the demands of total quality while exceeding customers’ expectations. Contact Details: Address: Rapid International Ltd, 96 Mullavilly Road, Portadown, Co Armagh. BT62 2LX Telephone: 028 38 840671 PR Contact: Kelly McCollum Email: marketing@rapidinternational.com Website: www.rapidinternational.com