The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, has set the 26,000 hectares Cross River State oil palm-based bio-diesel project to generate 14 MW of electricity. According to the NNPC, Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, the electricity will be from empty fruit bunches and the residue from oil palms. The 26, 000 hectares facility’s design is to accommodate an oil palm plantation co-located with bio-diesel, crude palm oil co-generation plants and other facilities. Under the arrangement, Ughamadu said the oil palm would be processed into fuel grade Biodiesel and industrial crude palm oil as by-products. Mr. Ughamadu said, the Biodiesel would be blended with diesel in a mix of 20 per cent biodiesel and 80 per cent diesel and sold as B20 in the domestic market, while any utilized biodiesel quantity would be exported to the international market. He explained that the NNPC Cross River bio-fuel project was in tandem with renewed drive by the corporation to develop biofuels in Nigeria through partnership with core investors to create a low carbon economy and link oil and gas sector to the agricultural sector. The NNPC spokesperson noted that the project would also mitigate the adverse effect of climate change and the transformation of NNPC into an integrated energy company with diverse portfolio. He said, “The business model would involve a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) comprising NNPC, State Government and the Core-investor. The state Government will provide land as equity while core investor takes more than 50% equity and operate the venture leaving NNPC and state Government with minority share of less than 50%. Ughamadu added that the NNPC had commenced comprehensive community integration and stakeholders’ engagement to sensitize dwellers of Iwure, Ojor and Osomba/Akin communities of Cross River State ahead of the planned oil palm-based bio diesel project in that part of the state. He also noted that officials of the corporation’s Renewable Energy Division, RED, have embarked on the sensitization campaign across affected communities, providing information on the rationale and projected benefits of the biofuels projects in the state. NNPC Research and Development Division, R&D, was also being engaged for the conduct of Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, ESIA, for the projects.