HPE Africa’s recently launched Hyundai R210 crawler excavators have been named the ‘SMART’ series – not only for its best-in class performance, but also for its improved productivity and safety, easy maintenance and the latest computer aided telematics analytical capabilities. “The first batch of R210 SMART units we imported at the end of 2017 have already been sold and delivered,” says Alex Ackron, managing director, HPE Africa. “Exceptional fuel efficiency of these machines – due to the upgraded circuit design – will exceed all performance expectations.” Hyundai R210 SMART excavators are fitted with high power turbocharged engines that can withstand difficult operating conditions, including heat, humidity and dust, with no compromise on productivity. Additional reinforcement of the bucket link supports greater bucket dig and arm crowd forces and added reinforcement of the idler area track enables dependable operation in tough operating conditions. HPE Africa – exclusive distributors in Southern Africa for Hyundai Construction Equipment – distributes Hyundai Construction Equipment as well as Soosan hydraulic hammers and McCloskey crushing and screening units. The company operates a countrywide network of a well-equipped spares and workshop outlets. Hyundai’s advanced computer aided power optimisation CAPO technology, plus hydraulic flow summation and the new arm regeneration system, ensure faster cycle times, for greater output and improved performance. The CAPO system allows the operator to select preferences for boom or swing priority, power mode and optional work tools. This technology also provides complete self-diagnostic features and digital gauges for important information, like water and hydraulic oil temperature and fuel levels. Critical safety features of Hyundai R210 SMART excavators include an anti-restart system, new cabin roof lights to enable work at night and an auto engine overheat protection function, which monitors and controls coolant temperature. What are also important are safety levers that guard against unintentional machine movements and counterbalance to protect against accidental roll down of the machine in steep gradients. Holding valves prevent attachments from drifting against gravity, as a result of prolonged overhanging. The smart instrument panel makes it easy for the operator to check all critical systems. A one touch deceleration switch and auto idle function reduce fuel consumption, enhancing operational efficiency. A new air pre-cleaner, that extends filter servicing requirements, is enhanced by Hyundai’s design for easy access to components for quick maintenance procedures.