Construction sector in Zambia is led by the demand by the mining industry, shopping centers, infrastructure development, residential buildings and offices. According to the Zambia Development Agency (ZDA), Building and construction has been the largest industrial sector of Zambia comprising 27.5% of the GDP with a growth rate of 12% in 2016 and recording a US $3.3bn of foreign direct investment. As a result there are many Zambia construction companies including professional services like contractors and architects as well as building equipment and supplies. The following is a list of top construction companies contributing to Zambia’s boom in the sector With close to 50 years experience in Infrastructure and Transport Sectors in Southern Africa BICON Zambia Ltd, represents an excellent combination of local, regional and international experience BICON Zambia Ltd is a member of the BICON Group of Companies and operates closely in conjunction with other BICON offices in Namibia, Swaziland, Botswana, Zimbabwe, South Africa and the United Kingdom. BICON Zambia has been actively operating in Zambia since 1998 although its holding company BICON Namibia was established in 1957. The company has a wide knowledge specialist with a wide range of disciplines enabling the Group to offer multi-sectored services which include state-of-the-art computer hardware and software, for technical, administrative and project management applications. Since the early days of the firm’s existence, The Company has been marked by its policy to employ and train as many local staff as possible in order to provide a long-term sustainable and effective base of local expertise. The BICON Group ensures that this objective is achieved by adopting a local management structure that is always geared and committed towards the sustainable transfer of skills and the empowerment of local staff. Being part of a large group of companies enables BICON Zambia to draw specialized human and technical skills from a big pool of resources within the BICON Group of Companies. This makes it possible for BICON Zambia to mobilize resources and create the necessary critical mass required to respond to the demands of large projects The BICON Group of companies is a well-established multi-disciplinary engineering and project management organization such as construction of Secretariat Building on Alick Nkhata road valued at US $10m, construction of a three storey ultra modern office block at a cost of US $9m among others Located in Lusaka, Groutex Company Ltd was established in 2010 and became a full service construction company that offers, Structural engineering project management, design and build works with a strong personal commitment on each project The company has mastered the art of working closely with its clients and team to ensure that projects are achieved to programme and budget hence earning local and international experience, with all their construction works built to high standards. The company is uniquely known for its tried and test building project management principles which help clients make informed decisions before and during the building construction Tomorrow Investments is one of the largest companies in Zambia that specializes in general building and civil engineering works and incorporated in 1989. The company brings together human resource, materials and machinery at the right place and at the right time, in order to realize construction projects, however complex they may be. Some of the projects that have put Tomorrow Investments in the book of records include; construction and periodic maintenance of 43Km  Vyamba – Chinakila road valued at US $6m, construction of two-storey lodge at KapiriMposhi Town Council  valued at US $324K among others. LSO Contractors LTD is a Zambian-owned and youth-driven Contracting business that is headquartered in Lusaka was incorporated in December 2011 under the Companies Act Cap 388 of the laws of Zambia. The civil engineering and contractor company utilize their expertise in project management to deliver quality products and services to various clients as they only believe in being the best in class and providing specialist services in niche areas of business. Some of the company’s recent projects include; Road & Paving Works of 8 Reedbuck Pave Brick Restoration Off KabulongaRoad,construction of Grain Slabs for Food Reserve Agency in Mumbwa, rehabilitation of Infotainment Movement (Youth NGO) offices at David Kaunda High School in Lusaka. Project was primarily sponsored by the Governance Secretariat under the Ministry of Justice. Nemerit Enterprise is a well known and established building contractor company within the town of Lusaka with its engineering services spread across the country and neighboring countries. Nemerit has a focus on preserving long-term economic value of real estate assets through the provision of quality maintenance and repair services, since its establishment which has seen a growth in demand for their services in both private and public contracts. The company’s knowledgeable team ensure all projects are completed within the specified time, budget and meet the required quality standards as it aims to be committed to maintaining a high level of performance on each project and providing international standards. Shade Control Specialists has been in business since 1968 and began with the manufacture of Venetian blinds, expanding into curtain and cubicle rail system and has since grown to a full engineering and contractor company. Shade Control is uniquely known for offering comprehensive range of property improvement services across the provinces of Zambia and also supply fit flooring which is 40% lighter custom designed according to clients need. This makes them very popular within the construction industry.