Triad Architect’s professionalism, commitment and reliability in the architectural profession has seen them rise to the helm of the industry in the 55 years they have been in practice in Kenya and greater East Africa Region. Founded in 1963 by two British nationals,Amyas Connell and Graham McCullough, the firm has placed its footprint in the profession with well over 4,000 successfully completed projects under its belt. The company has evolved over the years from a partnership run by foreign nationals, to a Limited Liability Company, fully owned by Kenyans. This has been possible through proactive  succession planning that encourages young architects in the firm, growing them not only as good architects but leaders in the firm and profession. Triad Architects is currently run by 4 directors who are also the shareholders, with a technical support staff of over twenty professionals, based in Nairobi with associate offices in Kampala and Kigali. The directors provide hands-on direction to all the projects in the office ensuring the highest quality of design and project management. According to Arch. Charles Ndung’u one of the Directors, through their legacy that centers on professional excellence and  sustainability, Triad is known in the industry as a reliable firm with a high level of integrity that runs through all aspects of its work and interactions. Triad has established a very strong brand not only in Kenya but also the East African region, through their extensive portfolio which ranges from commercial, institutional, residential, and social to hospitality projects. “We are synonymous with high quality projects, delivered on time and within the allocated budget. We have also invested heavily in Information Technology (IT) and constantly strive to improve and develop new IT skills.” he affirms. Moreover, in recognition of the ever growing complexity of the design and procurement of buildings, the firm constantly reviews all its systems to ensure the delivery of good quality, well designed buildings, to the clients’ requirements. “We take pride in our team of industry experienced, technically qualified and highly trained staff whose skills are core to the success of projects undertaken,” says Arch. Ndung’u. He further adds that, the unrivaled quality of their projects bears testimony to the qualification of the staff and guarantees quality of design, programming, cost control and the effective management of contacts. “We employ architects of the highest caliber and ensure that in-service training is used to develop skills of our staff. Additionally, collaboration with other professionals in Kenya and overseas in the execution of various projects has ensured that our staff enjoy the experience and benefits of technology transfer,” Charles asserts. Interior design. Over the years Triad Architects has undertaken many interior design projects that have been delivered through their team of qualified Interior Designers.  To strengthen this service and brand, Triad Interiors was established in year 2017 “Interiors have become very specialized in the last decade with clients expecting interiors of high quality that are tastefully designed to international standards.  This has led to the role of interior design becoming critical in almost all building projects” says Arch. Ndung’u.Today Triad is well resourced to provide this specialized service to its every growing client base. In the recent past Triad has designed interiors for large corporate organizations, institutions and private developers. This arm of the firm will continue to be strengthen over the coming years. Triad Foundation Triad Architects founded the Triad Foundation in year 2013 during their 50th anniversary celebrations which fell in this year. It was set up to strengthen the work the firm had been doing as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The foundation’s main aim is to help the less privileged members of the society in improving their built infrastructure specifically in education, and health.  The ultimate objection is to enhance the education and health services in this sectors. This is all done with sustainability in mind and with respect to the environment. “The foundation identifies needy institutions, and partners with them to not only provide our services at no cost but also to raise money to assist those institutions improve their infrastructure. Since its inception, we have done 6 projects and we are now on the seventh one. Last year, we went to Mathare slums and came across this school called Genesis Joy that was started by a gentleman who grew up there and is now a qualified teacher. While all the structures in the school are in a dire state, what struck us most what that the school did not have toilets!  We decided we are going to partner with them to build toilets as our Triad Foundation project for year 2017. However, the project has now evolved to not only include new toilets but also the development of formal classes.  We intend to put up a new classroom block for consisting of 9 classes and ablutions.” explains Arch. Ndung’u. The foundation raises funds by organizing golf tournaments every September at the Muthaiga Golf Club, to assist these schools. Some of the other foundation projects include:- Muthaiga Primary School – Refurbishment of 2No. Classrooms and toilets; Martin Luther Primary School refurbishment and equipping of the hearing impaired class; The Kenya High School Chapel – Refurbishment of the Chapel; Murema Primary School – Design and Construction Supervision of the toilet block in partnership with Actis; and Olympic Primary School – Design and Construction Supervision of additional 15No. Classrooms, in partnership with, Britam Tower LLP.   The foundation has also undertaken work at Gertrude’s Children’s Hospital, Nairobi.  In March, 2018 the Foundation donated 6 computers to the youth centre at St. Jerome Centre in Kibra Slums. Certification Triad Architects was the first architectural practice to obtain ISO 9001 certification in East Africa, in 2000. ISO 9001(International Organization for Standardization)  is one of three international standards dealing with quality management in organizations that can be used for quality assurance purposes.  Over the years the Triad has undergone re certifications and is now certified under the ISO 9001:2015 quality management system. Triads Projects. Having undertaken more than 4,000 projects in their 55 years of practice, Triad Architects has left its mark all over East Africa. Triad has been the architects for significant projects many of national importance and heritage of the East Africa Countries. Some of these projects include: Kenya Uganda Rwanda Other countries