One of the most innovative products to come from Konecranes recently is the CXT Explorer. It is a combination of a 6.3T mobile overhead crane, travelling on a gantry, supported by two sturdy containers which make for fully equipped workshop that can literally be set up in the middle of nowhere. It is ideally suited to conditions in Africa and is expected to do very well here. The CXT Explorer comes as a pre-designed package in one of the 20 ft standard ISO shipping containers, with a carefully-selected range of standard functions and optional extras. These include a full CXT electric overhead crane of approx. 1250 kg, supported by the two containers, and an electric or manual hoist. The shipping containers double as storage for the crane components, service tools, equipment, and spare parts. The CXT Explorer is easily transported together with another ISO shipping container. The containers are put onto the ground; the supporting steel structure is built on top, secured with twist locks. If available it can be plugged into the grid, or otherwise a generator. And voilà, you have factory-level lifting a few hours after arriving on site. To relocate the crane, it is packed back into the container and it’s ready to go. It can be used in construction, mining, vehicle maintenance, agriculture, natural gas compressor stations, in the military, oil exploration, onshore and offshore drilling. In the CXT Explorer, you have a full-blown mobile maintenance workshop ready to go. For further information please contact John MacDonald on +27 (0) 11 898 3500, +27 (0) 76 403 3184 or email john.macdonald@konecranes.com Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, established in Finland over 100 years ago, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as servicing for cranes and hoists of all makes. The Group has 12,100 employees, at 626 locations in 54 countries, including ten branches in South Africa (Johannesburg, Port Elizabeth, Durban, Cape Town, Witbank, Klerksdorp and Ngodwana, Uitenhage, Maputo and Richards Bay).