Construction companies in Ghana’s construction sector is increasingly dynamic and led by private sector participants. While parts of the real estate market have slowed in recent years, demand for low-cost housing remains as strong. Government investment is a major driver of growth, with a substantial pipeline of projects in transport infrastructure in particular expected to be rolled out in the coming years. Below are the top building and construction companies in Ghana. Berock Ventures Limited is a Chartered Building and Civil Engineering wholly owned Ghanaian Limited Liability Construction Company registered in Ghana since 1993. Committed in the use of appropriate and sustainable infrastructure development solutions delivered in a timely and quality manner, the company specializes in Building and Road Construction, Consultancy in Civil Works, Facilities Management and Import& Sales of Construction Equipment. Berock Ventures Ltd has been commended on many occasions for the efficient and timely execution of its projects. The company has been successful at winning national and international competitive biddings to undertake major building, water, electrification and civil engineering projects in Ghana which have been captured in the attached company profile. Winning the Construction Company of the Year award the company has involved itself in a number of remarkable projects including, Construction Of Ghana Civil Aviation Training Academy Complex Extension, construction Of Shops And Offices Complex At Community 2, Tema, Greater Accra Region, construction of Accra Shippers center among others. David Walter Limited is one of the leading and progressive Civil Engineering companies in Accra, Ghana. It is a Limited Liability Company with Registration number 8385 established in 1975. David Walter Limited provides General Building and Civil Engineering Works, Building Engineering Services and Pre-Construction Services. The company has grown steadily as a direct result of vigorous commitment to client satisfaction and a team of experienced staff working together to accomplish projects. Being proud members of the Ministry of Works and Housing, registered in financial Class D1K1 in both General Building and Civil engineering works, the company provides quality Civil Engineering services to both Private, Public/Government Institutions with the aim of maintaining local and international clients. David Walter is known for a number of remarkable projects including; construction of DFID Steel Bridge over River Butre in 1993,construction of AUPresidential Houses in 2007 valued at US $8m, Rehabilitation of Goil Service Station, AkimOda, Civil Works for Oil Berth, Fire Pump House at GHAIP Refinery (Tema Oil Refinery) Ghana Ltd, Tema Harbour among others. Inocon group limited is located in Accra and was registered under the Ghana Company’s Code in 1998.It is a company undertaking business in the area of construction engineering, project management, including Construction management, Planning and design, field implementation of projects, preparation of projects, Identification of profile and feasibility studies, turn key projects and suppliers of construction materials. Inocon group limited is an award winning company that has strong belief in development, innovation and maximum client satisfaction. The company has a good blend of highly qualified Professionals with several years of experience and crop of promising young professionals, whose contribution has already enriched the quality of services rendered by the company. The company is one of the most successful companies in the construction industry that contributes to the development of the local community and society as part of its corporate social responsibility with an annual turnover of US $265K Asanduff Construction Company Asanduff Company was founded in 1990. Currently, the company is dedicated to building the best structures, a block at a time.  Being open for local and international customers, it builds building blocks, provides tracking services and expands businesses in general. Asanduff  Group of Companies started as a single company founded by the late John Gyarko Asante and his wife Hannah Dufie Asant, serving as a block factory and building construction company and since then the company has grown to input an annual turnover of US $624K and have  a solid foundation of product quality, industry expertise, innovative technology, same day delivery, and exceptional customer service at all times. Limerica Ghana limited Limerica Ghana Limited is a private construction company established in 2006 offering a wide array of services in building and construction. It is famously known as one of the companies that can deliver projects within a fixed budget on schedule. Over the years the company has executed works for both private individuals as well as government agencies. With very high turnovers, Limerica Ghana Limited has had strong financial standings to enable it take up projects of various sizes. With almost a decade in the construction industry, Limerica has built trusting relationships with its clients by being responsive to their expectations and providing the highest quality is the cornerstone of our corporate culture. Some of the projects undertaken include rehabilitation of 19.5 km tamale town road, construction of 2-storey block dormitory for Koforidua polytechnic,  routine maintenance of  12.2 km Ziope Adaklu Waya.      