Bobcat has unveiled  a new V723 VersaHandler expanding its line of tele handlers in the 7,000- to 8,000-pound size class, giving the machine a low profile to easily maneuver job sites yet still handle heavy loads. The V723 can handle loads up to 7,700 pounds at max lift height of 22 feet, 10 inches with a boom pivot made of thick reinforced steel. The company also added protection for vital parts and brackets to support heavy loads, which reduces stress on the boom, pivot point and chassis. Heavy-duty enclosed frame welds reinforce the telehandler’s frame. The V723 runs on a turbocharged, 100-horsepower Bobcat diesel engine that doesn’t require a diesel particulate filter for Tier 4 Final compliance. That’s because the company says its combustion-chamber design minimizes particulate matter. The engine has also been side-mounted to increase visibility and maintenance access, and its sides and bottom are protected by a thick steel frame. Rubber engine mounts reduce shock. Bobcat also made it easier to clean out dust and debris from the radiator with an automatic reversing fan. The cooling fan can be reversed by pushing a button or setting it to activate automatically at various time intervals. The telehandler offers speed management, which allows operators to adjust travel speed independently of engine speed. The accelerator pedal sets the desired engine speed for the attachment being used, and the operator can dial in the desired travel speed. The V723 also provides two travel speed ranges, each with low and high settings. An inching control feature reduces drive speed without reducing power to the attachment for more precise control without sacrificing productivity. The telehandler can travel up to 18.7 mph in front-wheel steer mode, which allows operators to drive the V723 between job sitesrather than hauling it by trailer. It also offers all-wheel steer for quick and tight turns and crab steer for precise side-to-side positioning. Bobcat engineered the V723 for operator comfort. It added a ride-control cushioning suspension system for riding over uneven or rough terrain and a boom cushioning suspension system that provides a smoother boom motion when working with attachments. The cab provides 360-degree visibility with its asymmetric design, wraparound rear window and split door. The telehandler comes standard with an enclosed cab that has heat and air conditioning. Cab features include tilt steering, a multicontrol joystick and a three-way adjustable cloth seat. The telehandler also comes standard with Bobcat’s Power Quick-Tach, which allows quick attachment changes. Operators can change non hydraulic attachments without leaving the cab.  Other features include,Fine-mesh intake screen to help prevent large debris from entering the engine basket and plugging the radiator.The Diesel fuel is contained in a rust-free polypropylene tank to minimize condensation and contamination of the fuel system. It has a battery rundown protection that automatically shuts down after the predetermined time and voltage level, preventing accidental battery discharge.The machine shutdown protection system to continuously monitor engine coolant, hydraulic oil, engine oil and other vital machine functions and an optional window guards to protect operators and their investment from falling and flying debris.   