In 2018, Ciber Equipamentos Rodoviários, a member of the Wirtgen Group, is completing 60 years. Born in 1958 in the city of Porto Alegre, state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, the company has been a pioneer since then in the development and technological innovations and applications for asphalt plants. There are more than 1.800  plants distributed throughout Latin America, Africa, Southeast Asia, Australia and New Zealand, delivering equipment with the most modern and efficient asphalt mass production, contributing to thousands of projects in all continents and adding development of road infrastructures. The celebration of the 60th anniversary is celebrated with another milestone, the launch of a new era in mobile continuous asphalt plants, the new, unique and most advanced line of Ciber iNOVA Series plants, combining maximum mobility with high productivity, efficiency in fuel consumption, flexibility in the production of different types of asphalt mixes, easy operation control, robustness and optimized maintenance. CIBER is specialized in developing and manufacturing equipment for building, maintaining, and repairing roads, merging quality and technology. CIBER is also a member company of the WIRTGEN GROUP, an internationally active group of companies in the construction equipment industry. Besides CIBER, the group comprises the four renowned brands WIRTGEN, VÖGELE, HAMM and KLEEMANN , all headquartered in Germany, as well as local production facilities in Brazil, India and China. The company offers a complete line of equipment for building, maintaining, and repairing pavements in the markets where it is located. The company manufactures high-quality equipment for various highway applications that streamlines the building of roads and brings savings to its customers by combining efficiency and high productivity. Dozens of machines are used for carrying out the highway building process as well as the production of asphalt, paving, milling, and recycling, which ensures that the final result lasts a long time.