Van Dyck Floors has created the masterpiece in carpet tiles – the latest Mozart Collection. This innovative range of darker shaded carpet tiles combines the latest in interior trends with comfort, style and affordability. “Van Dyck Floors has always prided itself in meeting market needs with truly on-trend, versatile carpet tile options that are suited to a variety of commercial interior requirements,” said Bernd de Smedt, Sales & Marketing Director of Van Dyck Floors. “The latest Mozart Collection is available in a range of three colours in six different designs that provide a really upmarket, trendy look and feel that will certainly remain classy and contemporary for many years to come,” he added. The incredible versatility and practicality of carpet tiles in various contract applications has been proven over the years. They are manageable and easy to install because of their size, and this extends through to replacement of worn or soiled carpet sections. Rather than having to remove an entire floor because of a damaged section, carpet tiles require the replacement of only a fraction of carpet section, saving on costs and time. Replacing carpet tiles is also dust-free and quiet, which is an added bonus in open plan offices and big floor spaces. Van Dyck Floors knows there is no one-size-fits-all for work spaces, and the new Mozart Collection will certainly resonate with most medium commercial environments as they are available in six contemporary designs and three colour ranges. There is further choice for the client in the laying of the carpet tiles in different directions – monolithic, tessellated (quarter–turn), ashlar or brick-bond – creating varied patterned effects. The Mozart Collection comes standard in 50 x 50cm size, however other shapes and sizes such as 60 x 60 cm and 100 x 100 cm squares and 25 x 100 cm planks will be manufactured on request – because the clients’ needs always come first. In addition, these six new design ranges from the Mozart Collection complement other Van Dyck Floors carpet tile ranges already on offer, providing even further selections for customized styles or tastes. As a member of the Green Building Council SA, Van Dyck Floors always manufactures their products meeting the requirements for Green Star Rating. Because of this environmental consideration, the Mozart Collection is manufactured at Van Dyck Floors’ Durban factory, accredited with both the ISO 9001 quality management accreditation and ISO 14001 environmental management certification. The bitumen used in creating these carpet tile ranges consists of more than 40% recycled material and, because of their lasting durability, can be re-used for the secondary market at the end of their eventual lifespan. In addition, the bitumen backing contains no PVC’s and is very low on VOC. “We’re a quality brand that has been tried, tested and trusted since 1948, and we are certain that the Mozart Collection is the ideal choice for anyone looking for an innovative, stylish, practical and durable designer floor,” concluded De Smedt. 