Construction works of Bamburi Cement at its Nairobi Grinding Plant is now complete with the commissioning of the US $40m plant planned for the last quarter of this year. This initiative will see cement production for the company with the new line injecting additional production capacity of 900,000 metric tonnes per year to increase total capacity at the Plant to 2.4 million metric tonnes per annum. Overall, the annual combined total capacity of Bamburi Cement’s two plants (Nairobi and Mombasa) will increase to 3.2 million metric tonnes a year. Also Read: Kenya’s consumption of cement drops Also, the cement producing company will eventually start production of two high strength cement brands namely Power Plus and Power Max that were previously only produced at the Company’s Mombasa Plant. The Nairobi Plant was only producing Tembo and Nguvu brands. Company’s CEO Mr. Seddiq Hassani confirmed the news and said that the very able contractor is on schedule and will soon be handing the project over to the company for full operation “The contractor is on schedule and will soon be handing the project over to the company for full operation. Further, we are happy that the line has produced the first bag of cement three days ahead of the scheduled time. The next phase is to conduct tests on the system for efficiency and thereafter commission it,” he said. The key components of the new production line that are already completed include the 140 tonnes per hour Vertical Cement Grinding Mill (VCM) complete with grid re circulation, process dedusting and hot gas generator, two new cement storage silos with a capacity of 1,500 tonnes each, new 120 tonnes per hour cement packing machine, power installation among other auxiliary equipment. Bamburi Cement capacity increase comes hot on the heels of projected demand in both domestic and regional markets attributed to the investment in the construction sector mainly in the individual home builder segment and in major infrastructural activities.