Ghana has performed a groundbreaking ceremony to kick start the construction of the Pokuase Interchange at the ACP Junction, Ga West Municipality in the Greater Accra Region. The US $84 m project is jointly funded by the African Development Bank and the Government of Ghana. The project upon completion in two years, will ease traffic congestion and improve urban mobility along the Nsawam-Accra road. The Pokuase Interchange project consists of the construction of a 5km road from Awoshie to Pokuase, 2km road to link the Accra-Nsawam Highway, another 2km road to Kwabenya and the construction of 10km of local roads. The construction contract has been awarded to Messrs China Zhongmei Eng. Company Limited. The project forms part of the Accra Urban Transport project aimed at promoting sustainable economic growth for the people in the area. The Senior Minister, Mr Osafo Maafo, on behalf of the President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, charged the Ministry of Roads and Highways to ensure that the contract is executed to specification and delivered on time. According to Mr. Maafo, regular users of that road know the frustrations and negative effects of congestion they go through. Hence, the need to attach all seriousness to give the people value for money. “The government is determined to fulfill its promises and the prospects of these roads when completed will change the face of the area,” he said. Also read: Ghana inaugurates the Kogina-Akoti road Mr Maafo charged the contractor and the consultant to ensure that the compensations are promptly paid to people whose properties are affected by the project. He commended the previous government for signing the project in 2016 and assured that it would be perfectly executed as a mark of good governance. The Country Manager of the African Development Bank, Dr Yero Baldeh said the project will provide a critical missing link at the Pokuase intersection. Dr Baldeh urged the government to explore new sources of funding including Public Private Partnerships (PPP) and also ensure that new tolling policies are implemented. The Minister of Roads, Mr Kwasi Amoako-Atta, stated that traffic congestion in the Greater Accra Region has been a concern for the Ministry and assured that the project when completed will enhance connectivity between parts of the country. He also expressed governments resolve to address all roads infrastructure challenges and assure that the Ministry and the Technical brains in charge of the project will ensure that the project is done to specification.