Utility management company Bosch Munitech has completed the design and installation of a metering and monitoring system to manage water consumption for the Lower Berg River Irrigation Board in the Western Cape. The company was to install the Krohne Water flux electromagnetic flow meters and Nivusonic transit time flow meters for 135 irrigation abstraction points on the Berg river at a cost of US $0.2m “As a result of the critical drought in the Western Cape, the Department of Water and Sanitation now requires that all agricultural abstractions from the Lower Berg river – which is a key source of water for Cape Town, surrounding towns and agricultural enterprises – be metered,” explains Bosch Munitech senior contracts manager Iaan de Beer. Also read: Kenya to construct 200 household dams in Kajiado county Iaan de Beer indicated that an important criterion of the project was that all flow meter readings must be readily accessible in a database for online access to the consumption data of each water meter connected to the system. The team deployed a purpose-built Internet of Things communications platform and a Web-based data management portal from telecommunications equipment supplier Liquid Fibre. De Beer explained that the Liquid Fibre portal enables users to view and export flow meter data online from personal computers and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. He says Web-based application overcomes the usual challenges such as high installation costs and unreliable network coverage. He notes that the Krohne Water flux electromagnetic flow meter is a low maintenance water meter which meets stringent potable water standards designed for bidirectional flow measurement. “The flowmeters have a rectangular sensor that allows for a stable measurement, even at low and uneven flow rates. They offer high accuracy of less than 0.5% across its measurement range,” said Iaan de Beer. The meter can be anywhere, without the need for straight inlet or outlet runs – for example, behind pipe bends or control valves – or a reduction in the pipe diameter, says De Beer. “These meters are also suitable for burial installation and immersion in flooded chambers.” he added De Beer says the highly accurate Nivusonic meter is easy to install and offers substantial savings over the standard mechanical installation cost associated with inline flow meters on large-diameter pipelines. 