Delta Electrical Limited is an all Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Company that delivers ultra- modern electrical design, installation and support with an all in one solution for Prepaid Electricity and Water Sub- Meters, Vending 24/7 and AMI Metering Solutions to cater for all electrical needs. Launched in 2008, the company has been servicing the commercial, industrial and public sector industries operating across the East African Region with a remarkable growth trajectory. They conduct their business with both the government and private sector and have over the years partnered with renowned world-class companies in a bid to make the Electrical Technology mainstream in Uganda and the East African region. Uniquely, their prepaid electricity and water sub-meters are not only cost-effective and easy to use but are also ideal for; Property investors, Landlords, Letting agents, Granny flats, Individual rented units, shops, and stores as well as sporting facilities. Being a customer oriented company, they provide their esteemed clients with experience, top-notch quality, unwavering dedication, and professionalism painting a picture of a company that is a force to reckon with and are the undisputed leaders in providing electrical services in Uganda ultimately. By placing great emphasis on their relationship with clients, private and commercial the company prides itself on its ability to timely respond to contracting requirements efficiently and cost-effectively offering value for money and a proposition that is truly hard to refuse. To serve the diverse customer needs Delta Electricals Limited offers a wide variety of product services. The services include; Energy prepayment metering solutions, MV/LV Line constructions, Instrumentation, and Automation, All round Generator Services, Renewable energy systems, Telecommunications- voice and data among others. Key product categories include; Automation and drivers, Power transmission and distribution, Omicron, Sivacon, Energy saving and power factor correction, fire safety, Building automation among others. The company also supply and install a variety of professional high definition security camera systems. Their IP security camera systems provide Full HD 1080p video quality with superb digital zooming capabilities and also offer HD over Coax full 1080P Security Camera Systems and have always exceeded their client’s expectations. Their vast range of ring main units are all suitable for both indoors and outdoors locations designed to operate in extreme environmental conditions. Delta Electricals Limited have gained a reputation and credibility for their timely completion of projects. Some of their projects include; Replacement of vandalized transformers in Mubende and Kyenjojo, Installation of 2x50kva txt at Kacumbiro and Kazo water works in Kazo and Rushere as well as 2×50 Kva at Kitgum Parabek and Lira Aloi, Electrical upgrade for central purchasing point Hoima, Line clearance of Masaka UMEME District Network among others and have partnered with some of the best brains in the Electricity business. The company embraces the challenges they encounter and strives to offer quality electrical and mechanical design, installation and maintenance with respect to the internationally recognized emphasizing quality and safety. Fueled by their vision to be amongst the premier engineering companies offering an unparalleled quality of services in electrical and mechanical projects in Uganda and the Sub-Saharan region by 2040, they have indeed provided a wave of change in the Electrical industry.   