Prayosha Enterprise Limited is the leading Aluminum and Steel fabricator in East Africa currently providing their services in Uganda, Kenya, and Rwanda. Formed in the year 2000 the company has gained a reputation for itself as the best in the trade providing an aesthetic value that is second to none. They provide quite the number of services including; supplying and fixing Aluminum doors, windows, main entrance, curtain walls, structural glazing, canopy, shower cubicles in all types of premises. Delivering quality products while maintaining the highest level of professionalism. The company welcomes projects of all sizes, challenges and delivers the best value for money and top-notch services to its esteemed customers and strives daily to transform their imagination into a reality. Uniquely, they use pure aluminum and glass products and have their very own powder coating plant and Electro Anodizing plant which happens to be the only one in East Africa. The company has been involved in many remarkable projects and have partnered with some of the biggest companies. Key projects include; Kyambogo University, Makerere University, The Cube, Hardware City, Head Quarters of Uganda Revenue Authority(Kampala) and Headquarters of ruling party(Kigali) Challenges Despite the success, the industry faces various challenges. Among these challenges is competition from companies selling inferior aluminum products to unsuspecting customers who do not have substantial knowledge of quality aluminum products and are just attracted by the low costs. Another challenge is the unavailability of required material in the local market as to handle project inquiries they mandatorily need to stock enough material which they import from various parts of the world but this requires a higher amount of investment as well as a bigger space to store the same. In the face of the minor setbacks, they strive to become a leading fabrication firm by their quality work, latest technology, workforce, professionalism, all under one roof. Making your imagination transform to a reality. 