As sports’ performance at school level increases, equipment and facilities need to develop to match this advanced playing style. Turftech (Pty) Ltd, the leader in natural and synthetic turf technology, is bringing this performance-enhancing sporting turf to South African schools with Ashton International College Benoni the latest recipient. In April this year, Ashton International College Benoni unveiled its immaculate new Turftech sports’ facilities. This includes the 7000m² multi-court facility, constructed with Rhino-Turf VT32; as well as the MT15F rust-coloured Rhino-Turf athletics’ track with sand infill.  There is also the Rhino-Turf MT15 green long jump facility with sand infill. The multi-court best suited to soccer, hockey and softball – provides optimum use of premium space across the various sports’ codes. The six-month installation project involved complete earthworks, layer works, drainage, fencing and finally the installation of the high-tech turf. The multi court turf replaced a traditional, full-size grass field which had served the school for the past two decades. However, the high demands of a strong sports’ school meant the field was exposed to repetitive use that necessitated ongoing maintenance and upkeep. “With the limited space available to schools and the increasing demand on young competitors, multi-use sports’ facilities – such as those installed at Ashton – are the fastest-growing sports’ facilities countrywide,” explained Len Ludick of Turftech. “Schools need to offer many sports’ codes which cater to a variety of talents, and this is can be achieved with such a facility.” Rhino-Turf The Rhino-Turf used in these multi-performance courts assists in enhancing player performance across various sporting fields. The increasing popularity and superior performance of this particular turf has seen accreditation from the highest levels of sport, among them FIFA, and FIH. A multisport product to achieve Strength in Performance! Commenting on the new turf installation, Joe Erasmus, MD of Ashton Group said the turf provided their students with a much more professional facility on which to perform and compete. “We’re extremely happy with the final product. It’s turned what was essentially a dustbowl into a real gem – an oasis in the desert! It’s provided our students with a really impressive sports’ ground and has just brought a whole new perspective to the school.” He explained that Turftech had installed a water-based synthetic hockey field at Ashton International College Ballito last year, and the school had benefitted tremendously from the facility. Looking to Benoni, he said the level of sports had already increased dramatically following the installation of the turf, with enthusiasm among students at an all-time high. “The new turf has really enhanced school spirit and brought everyone together.” Turftech products have an incredibly natural feel and enhanced aesthetic appeal. Using high-performance turf technology, the end-product is an easy maintenance, cost effective and water efficient sports’ facility – vital in current water-restrictive conditions. “We believe in providing our customers with a quality product that will increase the asset and investment of their company,” said Len Ludick. “As needs adapt, Turftech will ensure we are at the forefront of technological offerings. We are certain that Ashton International College Benoni, and the various competing schools, will benefit greatly from the new installations for many years to come.”