Plusworld roofing is a roof specialist and consulting company. It works with dedication and integrity, and strive for a position of leadership in the roofing industry. With a foundation of respect and trust, their goal is to build lasting relationships with their clients and to establish Plusworld Roofing as Africa’s most reliable and respected roofing company. Their goal is to ensure that the roof of buildings carry out their basic functional requirements which is to effectively discharge storm water from the building without any leakage or water penetration and/or defects by carrying out timely and highly effective repair operations using modern techniques and newest high quality and durable products at affordable costs. This also saves recurring cost of maintenance as their techniques are guaranteed to be effective over long duration of time. As an establishment that prides itself on quality workmanship & service, Plusworld roofing is a proudly Nigerian company. As Nigeria’s leading roof restoration, roof repairs and roof installation specialists, they have experience in every aspect of restoration repairs and installation in roofline work. Their highly skilled and vastly experienced roofers are second to none. They emphasize on the latest technologies and newest products from highly experienced and reputable companies such as the HYDROSEAL WATERPROOFING INC., a leader in the manufacture of environmentally safe roofing and waterproofing systems with a 10-year warranty and a 5-year extendable warranty; and NUTECH PAINT, Australia’s largest and oldest roof coating specialist with more than 40 years’ experience in the manufacture of environmentally friendly and safe roof paints for the Complete Roof Restoration System. They are one of the major dealers of Stone coated roofing system from New Zealand and Aluminium roofing system in Nigeria. We have installed various types of roofing system for public and corporate organisations; and private individuals around Nigeria. Their roofing materials carry 50 years material warranty and 10 years labour warranty. All materials are guaranteed to be as specified, while all work shall be completed in accordance to standard practices. 