The Egyptian Ministry of Electricity and Renewable Energy in collaboration with Siemens, have announced the completion of the Egypt Megaproject stating that it is set to commence operation. Siemens lauded that together with Egypt they have set a new world record for execution of modern, fast-track power projects, delivering 14.4 GW of power in only 27.5 months. “The record-breaking completion of our Megaproject in Egypt will not only transform the power landscape in Egypt, but will also serve as a blueprint for building up power infrastructure in the Middle East and all over the world,” said Joe Kaeser, President and CEO of Siemens AG. Also Read: South Africa to construct its US $1m first solar-powered desal plant The Mega project entails three power plants that are powered by eight SGT5-8000 H-class gas turbines, 4 steam turbines, 12 generators, 8 Siemens heat recovery steam generators, 12 transformers as well as a 500 Kv gas-insulated switch gear. “The completion of the power plants is a significant milestone in the government’s strategy to modernize energy infrastructure in Egypt to drive industrial growth and economic progress,” said. H.E. Dr. Mohamed Shaker, the Egyptian Minister of Electricity and Renewable Energy. “This is also why the plants were built in select locations across the country to serve the growing demand for electricity among households, businesses and industries. This new power infrastructure will serve as the backbone for economic prosperity in Egypt for years to come.” Dr. Mohammed added. Moreover, Siemens has successfully energized six substations that will transmit electricity generated by the new power plants in bid to improve the resilience of Egypt’s power grid. The stations will add a total of 14.4GW of power generation capacity to the country’s national grid, enough power to supply up to 40 million people. 600 local engineers and technicians, who will be responsible for operating and maintaining the plants, helping to expand skills and knowledge of the local workforce will also receive training from Siemens. “This Megaproject is also setting the benchmark for trustful and reliable cooperation with our customer and our partners. The leadership of President al Sisi and his team in this project has been remarkable. We look forward to apply this unique performance model also to other countries in their efforts towards reliable, affordable and sustainable power systems,” said Kaeser.             