Roofings Group Uganda is the leading manufacturer of steel and plastic construction products in East Africa, with over two decades of experience the company has made a name for itself in the construction industry in Uganda, with a far-reaching influence across the East African region. The group’s founder Dr. Sikander together with his able team of professionals have over the years rolled up their sleeves and worked tirelessly to ensure that the group of companies upholds top-notch standards in their business process which has without a doubt reflected as the group has become synonymous for the world-class products that they offer to the market. The fact that Roofing Group is the market leader in the supply of steel and plastic products for construction has time and again dispelled any doubts that its business model has been tried and tested, ensuring that sustainability is guaranteed for generations to come. It is evident that the company has grown by leaps and bounds as it has two separate entities operating under its umbrella; Roofing’s Group and Roofing Rolling Mills. The former is located approximately 6 km from Kampala city and engages in the production of a vast range of steel and plastic products for the construction industry. Roofing’s Rolling Mills, on the other hand, is one of the largest and most modern steel complexes operating in East and Central Africa and is located strategically to serve both the local Ugandan market and the EAC and COMESA markets. The group has also added roofing’s Manufacturing Limited located in Kigali, Rwanda under their wing as their newest member. In addition the company exclusively offers free services to its esteemed clients and prospective clients including; free testing services for quality, provide competitive data sheets to clients enabling them to comprehend the specifications of their products and depending on the size of the sale order they offer competitive commercial terms to clients as well as after sales services. Regarding service delivery, the group of companies prides itself as an organization that does not comprise on quality and is steadfast and proud to offer the best and consistent quality compared to their competitors. Affirming their position as the market leader and having been in the market for close to a quarter-century, they assure their customers of continuous support through the years as their products have stood the test of time. The group of companies is involved in many prestigious projects as proud suppliers of; new Jinja Nile Bridge, Karuma Dam, Entebbe Expressway, Entebbe Airport, Northern Bypass, New national water tank reserve, the water piping Uganda, Nasumba Hill among others. Regardless of the continued success, the group of companies has been forced to contend with competition that has come into the market as a result of substandard products that damage the perception of the consumers to the industry. The influx of counterfeit products in the market has also proved to be a menace as well as the unleveled play field when it comes to tax compliance. Notwithstanding the minor setbacks Roofing’s Group Limited is undeterred and steadfast in its promise of achieving a substantial regional presence through ensuring total customer satisfaction and their principle of value for money to clients.   