Over the years, South Africa’s construction industry has faced challenges fraught with labor unrest, substantial delays on some of the country’s major construction projects, as well as recent setbacks in the economy highlighting the need for better coordination and monitoring within the construction industry. However, the Government’s ongoing National Development Plan and its continued commitment to public infrastructure investment of US $63m over the next three years are positive signals for future growth in the industry. The commitment is highly brought about by the top construction companies in the country who have pledged dedication in delivery and efficiency of projects. The following are the top construction companies in South Africa WBHO Construction (Pty) Ltd is South Africa’s leading construction company dealing with building construction, civil engineering and roads and earth works services. The company’s history dates back to 1970 when Wilson-Holmes (Pty) Ltd was formed by John Wilson and Brian Holmes. A number of mergers followed resulting in the name being changed to Wilson Bayly Holmes (Pty) Limited in 1983 and finally to WBHO Construction in 1994. Today WBHO Construction prides itself by being listed on the Johannesburg Securities Exchange,JSEand having an annual turnover of US $669m The driving force behind WBHO is a core of dedicated, hands-on management professionals whose experience spans decades of major construction projects in southern Africa, the Middle East and various Indian Ocean islands. The company’s offices are strategically located in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth. With a long and proud heritage of more than a century, Murray and Roberts is a recognized multinational engineering and construction group group that applies its project life cycle capabilities to optimize client’s fixed capital investment. Murray and Roberts focuses its expertise and capacity on delivering sustainable and fit-for-purpose project engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, operations and maintenance solutions. Capabilities in three global market sectors: oil & gas; metals & minerals and power & water. The company is headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa, and is also listed on the JSE Limited with an annual turnover of US $97m For more than 125 years, Aveng has evolved in character, capacity and reach and continues to make its mark across the globe, boasting its expertise in steel, engineering, manufacturing, mining, concessions, public infrastructure and water treatment. The company’s origins lie in modest construction projects operating in a diverse range of sectorial and geographic markets, South Africa and Australia being their primary geographic market. Aveng employs some 16 000 people and has an annual turnover in excess of US $2bn. Group Five is a leading African construction, concessions and manufacturing group with the ability to deliver across the full infrastructure life cycle and creates engineering solutions. Group Five was established in 1974 and since listing 43 years ago, the company has illustrated resilience in several extremely volatile markets. With over 8000 employees, the company has a growing international client base in South Africa, the rest of Africa and Europe and has recently established small development offices in Russia and the USA with operating experience in 28 countries. Raubex prides itself as a world class heavy sector construction sector company with a focus on infrastructure development that operates across Africa founded in 1974 by the legend Koos Raubenheimer and has progressively developed into a leader in construction. In the mid-1990’s, Raubex began developing its African footprint and secured various projects in Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia and Zambia. Today Raubex generates approximately 10% of its revenue outside of South Africa with a record of over 39 years of uninterrupted profitability. Some of the projects the company has taken part include;Akasia Road Surfacing, Aliwal Dolorite Quarry, B&E International, Canyon Rock Quarries, Conspec, Milling Techniks, National Asphalt, Queens town Quarry, Space Construction, SPH Kundalila, ThabaBosiu Construction and Zamori Construction. Stefanutti Stocks is one of South Africa’s leading construction companies with a capacity to deliver a range of projects of any scale to a multitude of clients in diverse markets and having a grade 9 rating from the South African Construction Industry Development Board,CIDB. The multidisciplinary construction company has over 12000 employees with a broad spectrum of expertise means that it has the capability and capacity to offer a single point responsibility on infrastructure development projects, effectively removing the interface risk from the clients’ domain. The Motheo Construction Group was established in 1997 by Dr Thandi Ndlovu and has during its 21 year history developed into one of South Africa’s leading, predominantly black female – owned construction companies. Motheo Construction, a leading provider of Social Housing in the countryhas grown organically by re-investing its earnings to fund the company’s growth and since its establishment the company has delivered approximately 1.5% of all the social housing developed and/or constructed in South Africa. The company is currently registered with the CIDB as level 9 GBPE and 9 CEPE. Motheo has been registered with the NHBRC since its inception and remains in Good Standing. Through Dr Ndlovu’s involvement, Motheo is a founder member and leading role player in SAWIC, South African Women In Construction with an annual turnover of US $409m. WK Construction Is one of the largest independent construction and engineering companies in southern Africa, with more than forty years’ experience with a proven record in quality project delivery of pipeline construction, trench less technology construction, township roads and infrastructure development, general roads and earthworks, concrete structures, crushing and screening operations. Being a full member of the South African Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors WK construction has an enviable track record in pipeline construction using a large range of diameters from 100 mm up to 3000 mm and has involved in various projects including, The Western Aqueduct Project, the largest pipeline projects to be commissioned by EThekwini Water and Sanitation to date. Lubbe Construction is one of the biggest integrated construction development and management, infrastructure and property development company in South Africa. The company is a wholly black owned indigenous construction company which evolved from the solid and humble beginning in the home-building and general renovation industry in 1981. The company was formalized as a close corporation specializing in electrical and building construction In 1987. Today, Lubbe Construction is a private company registered in and under the company laws in the Republic of South Africa. The construction company has grown progressively in the construction sector and is now one of the biggest integrated construction development and management, infrastructure and property Development Company in South Africa. Lubbe Construction prides itself in unsurpassed workmanship and our great contribution to infrastructure development in South Africa, from construction of low cost housing to affordable housing, turn-key development projects and civil construction. The company targets to meet customer expectations and is proactive in finding the best solutions to clients that will meet the desired results. Fluor is one of the world’s largest engineering, procurement, fabrication, construction and maintenance (EPFCM) companies, providing innovative and integrated solutions to government and private sector Clients in diverse industries. For over a century, Clients have trusted Fluor to successfully, ethically and safely complete their capital projects.