Apex General Purpose Strip Curtains have long been considered one of the most cost effective manners of cordoning off areas in a manufacturing or production area, and this solution was recently applied at Germiston-based CT Hydraulics’ facility. In this particular application, the Apex General Purpose Strip Curtains were installed on a specially designed sliding track on the entrance into the spray booth area at this hydraulic manufacturing and refurbishment company. Large hydraulic components are moved on trolleys into and out of the spray booth area, and while it was necessary to contain the spray and residue, it was also necessary to facilitate an opening big enough for the unimpaired movement of items. WimDessing Jnr, sales director at Apex Strip Curtains & Doors, says that this was accomplished by using the sliding track which allows the strip curtains to be moved to the left and to the right creating the desired opening. “Had a fixed installation of strip curtains been used, it would have hampered the movement of the hydraulic components, potentially affected the finished paintwork and over time the strip would have become damaged,” Dessing Jnr says. The Apex General Purpose Strip Curtains feature the patented Balledge® reinforced strip which not only provides the optimal thermal close when the curtains are closed, but also allows the individual strips to part easily allowing personnel to move in and out of the area. Taking safety into account, this Apex General Purpose Strip Curtain incorporates a red warning strip at each end of the curtaining installation as well as in the middle. This clearly visibly demarcates the opening. This installation is 3,1 metres high and 5 metres wide, with individual strips that are 300 mm wide. Apex General Purpose Strip Curtains can be used to control the influx of hot or cold air, reduce the dust levels as well as prevent the ingress of birds, rodents and insects. Additional benefits include the reduction of noise levels from both inside and outside. The strips are available on a metre by metre basis, or as complete installation together with hanging hardware. Apex Strip Curtains & Doors is represented throughout South Africa by a network of agents that also offer technical and installation support.