Forming part of their 70th anniversary celebrations, Van Dyck Floors embarked on a countrywide roadshow the first 2 weeks of October, showering appreciation on loyal customers while highlighting how this organisation has continued to thrive in a highly competitive industry. Roadshows took place in East London, PE, Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg and Pretoria with events being held in Nelspruit and Bloemfontein towards the end of October. South Africa’s oldest carpet manufacturer became a global player in floor coverings by retaining the core principle of quality craftsmanship while incorporating innovative techniques that keep Van Dyck Floors abreast of international trends. The company is owned by PFE International, the holding company of the Zarrebini family, whose shareholders have more than 40 years of international experience in the manufacturing of carpets, as well as fibre and yarn extrusion. “Over the past seven decades, Van Dyck Floors has established itself as industry experts in flooring solutions, but there is much more to the company that can account for its longevity,” explained Bernd de Smedt, Sales and Marketing Director of Van Dyck Floors. “We are customer-focused and willing to adapt in terms of our manufacturing to suit varying needs. This has allowed us to establish a really strong distribution network with increased brand loyalty.” Van Dyck Floors boasts an impressive range of flooring products – the widest range in South Africa, outside of ceramic tiles. The product offering includes tufted and needle punch carpets in broadloom and tiles, rubber underlays, tiles and pavers, the increasingly popular artificial turf Easigrass, as well as a wide range of vinyl flooring and laminates. Keeping ahead of the market also sets Van Dyck Floors apart. Through the financial backing of PFE International, the company has acquired new equipment and introduced the above-mentioned revolutionary new products to the market. Despite the enhanced automation, however, Van Dyck Floors has managed to retain its 250 employees, all of whom receive ongoing training to ensure they are on top of the newest technologies and market trends. “The flooring market has certainly changed the past 70 years,” continued De Smedt. “Consumers are better-informed and they are looking for more choice. Where 20 years ago, people had one flooring throughout the home, there could be up to five different flooring applications today for the various rooms. We are a one-stop shop that offers quality options for every style and budget.” He said that, through strong partnerships both locally and abroad, Van Dyck Floors is able to – not only follow global trends – but also lead the way in setting trends. One example is the introduction of some very soft carpets like Romeo and Frivola, two soft-touch carpets that have an enticing tactile quality currently gaining increased popularity. Another example is our new Easi-Windsor artificial grass range made from a newly developed WW yarn, which creates a soft-feeling synthetic turf with improved resilience and durability. De Smedt said three key components, in any modern organisation, are quality, affordability and sustainability. The fact that Van Dyck Floors ticks all three boxes is evident in the company’s quality assurance ISO 9001:2008 and from an environmental perspective it is also one of a few international organisations with ISO 14001, ISO 14064-1 and Carbon Trust accreditation. “The current environmental reality makes the reduction of every organisation’s carbon footprint imperative,” said De Smedt. “We take this seriously, which is why we have reduced ours by 40% over the last four years. We will continue to cut emissions, develop new technologies and establish lifelong partnerships going forwards. We plan to be around for at least the next 70 years!”