Powerlink Group has introduced the Remote Heat Radiation Generator to the market. The cooling system of diesel generator sets plays an important role in the stable operation of the equipment. Scientific heat balance design can significantly improve the efficiency of the unit operation and reduce energy consumption. In urban buildings, the most effective space must be taken into account in the reasonable arrangement of equipment. How to meet the requirement of heat dissipation when the generator set is limited by the ventilation condition of the installation site, especially when installed in the basement, the space is closed? There is a special demand for noise suppression in commercial center and residential area, while the traditional heat dissipation method of generator set will produce great noise. How to optimize the cooling system and reduce the noise greatly? Powerlink remote heat radiation diesel generator set, based on the need for thermal balance and noise, and optimal investment cost control, provides you with a set of scientific and feasible solution of cooling system is to adopt the combination of independent heat exchanger and remote radiator, so that the heat dissipation of the engine is no longer restricted by space, and the heat balance and noise of the unit can be well controlled. Mainly used in commercial buildings, hotels, hospitals, entertainment, fitness clubs, schools, residential areas, stations, airports and other areas where the installation space is limited and low noise requirements and the environment temperature is higher. Founded in 2001, Powerlink is committed to high quality design and production. Having 1 R&D center and 3 manufacturing plants in the world, Powerlink launches various high-quality diesel power generation products and gas cogeneration products with the exterior shape being containerized, muted, open and portable. Powerlink also provides engineering equipment with an excellent performance, such as lighting cars, air compressors, etc. Powerlink Group has been recognized as a rapidly growing and continuously innovating power product manufacturer in the industry. They also sell to African countries like Ghana, Kenya, Algeria, Egypt and South Africa. Powerlink’s core products-EP Series (Perkins Engine) and WCS Series (Cummins Engine) cover various power from 5KVA to 2250KVA. These products comply with the global and regional standards and can be applied to various industries and fields. We are confident in providing a complete solution for all projects including various power stations, and we can also provide customized services based on customers’ special needs.