High-pressure seamless steel pipes for pseudo-deterioration equipment usually have the following characteristics: The pseudo-deteriorating fertilizer device is easy to fold with a high-pressure seamless pipe. Folding is a variety of fold lines formed on the surface of high-pressure seamless tubes for fertilizer equipment, and such defects often extend throughout the longitudinal direction of the product. The reason for the folding is that the inferior manufacturer pursues high efficiency, the amount of pressing is too large, and the ear is generated. When the next rolling is performed, the folding occurs, and the folded product is cracked after bending, and the strength of the high-pressure seamless pipe for the fertilizer equipment is used. Great decline. The pockmark is a defect caused by irregular irregularities on the surface of the high-pressure seamless pipe for fertilizer equipment due to the serious wear of the groove. Due to the pursuit of profit by high-pressure seamless pipe manufacturers for pseudo-deterioration fertilizer equipment, the most frequent rolling mill rolling is exceeded. There are two reasons for this: 1. The high-pressure seamless pipe material for the pseudo-deterioration fertilizer device is uneven in material and has many impurities. 2. The fake inferior material manufacturer’s guiding equipment is simple and easy to stick steel. These impurities are easy to produce crusting after biting the roller. It is prone to cracks because its billet is adobe, and there are many stomata in the adobe. During the cooling process, the adobe is cracked by the action of thermal stress, and there is crack after rolling. It is easy to scratch, because the equipment of the fake inferior material is simple, it is easy to produce burrs, and the surface of the high-pressure seamless pipe is used for scratching fertilizer equipment. Deep scratches reduce the strength of high pressure seamless tubes for fertilizer equipment. No metallic luster, light red or similar to pig iron color, for two reasons, its billet is adobe. The temperature of the fake inferior material rolling is not standard, and their steel temperature is visually measured, so that the rolling can not be carried out according to the specified austenite region, and the performance of the high-pressure seamless pipe for the fertilizer equipment is naturally unable to reach the standard. The cross-fabricity of the high-pressure seamless pipe for the pseudo-deteriorating fertilizer equipment is thin and low, and the phenomenon of filling and dissatisfaction often occurs. The reason is that the manufacturer has a large negative tolerance, the reduction of the first few passes of the finished product is too large, and the iron type is small, the hole The type is not full. The cross section is elliptical because the manufacturer has to reduce the amount of pressure in front of the finished roll in order to save material. The strength of the rebar is greatly reduced, and it does not meet the standard of the rebar dimensions. The high-pressure seamless pipe of high-quality fertilizer equipment has uniform composition, the tonnage of the cold-shearing machine is high, and the end face of the cutting head is smooth and tidy. However, due to poor material, the surface of the cutting head often has a phenomenon of falling meat, that is, unevenness, and no Metallic luster. And because the fake inferior products manufacturers have fewer heads, big ears will appear at the head and tail. The high-pressure seamless pipe material for the pseudo-deterioration fertilizer device contains many impurities, the density of the steel is small, and the size is too bad, so in the absence of the vernier caliper, it can be weighed and checked. For example, for rebar 20, the national standard specifies a maximum negative tolerance of 5%. At a fixed length of 9 M, its single theoretical weight is 120 kg. Its minimum weight should be: 120X (l-5%) = 114 kg. The actual weight of a single root is less than 114 kg, which is a high-pressure seamless pipe for pseudo-deterioration equipment because its negative tolerance exceeds 5%. In general, the effect of the phasing weighing will be better, mainly considering the problem of cumulative error and probability theory. The inner diameter size fluctuates greatly because of the reason; l), the steel temperature is unstable and there is a yin and yang surface. 2) The composition of steel is not uniform. 3), due to the simplification of the equipment, the foundation strength is low, and the rolling mill has a large bounce. There will be a large change in the inner diameter in the same week, and such a steel bar is unevenly stressed and easily broken. The trademarks and printing of high-quality materials are relatively standardized. Fertilizer equipment uses high-pressure seamless pipe with a diameter of 16 or more. The distance between the two trademarks is more than 1m.