Kenya is set to commence construction of a second bridge Nyali crossing in Mombasa. This is after the Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) identified three firms to partner with under Public-Private Partnership (PPP). Kura communication officer John Cheboi confirmed the reports and said the firms selected include; Nyali Connect Consortium, IHI-Join-Acciona Consortium and Strabag AG. He however clarified that one of the firms will be selected for the actual works after negotiations. Also read:Kenya to construct oil terminal at the port of Mombasa “It is the qualified firm that the government will get into a deal with. We want to start negotiations and see who can offer the best deal from the three.We are now waiting for the Treasury to either renew the contract of the advisor or if they will source another one so that we can continue with the plans,” said Mr. Cheboi. The communication officer also added that they are in the process of establishing the project cost and a date to commence work on the road that is set to link the Island and north coast. Second Nyali Bridge project The second Nyali bridge which was initially set to begin last year and be completed by 2018, will involve construction of a new 600 meter bridge and 400 meters of roads approaching the bridge linking the Island and north coast. The bridge construction which is part of the larger Mombasa Transport Master Plan that will help reduce congestion in the tourism hub, will start from Abdel Nasser Road on the Island and join Links Road on the northern mainland. The new bridge will pass near the Tamarind Hotel where the old Nyali Bridge was. The current bridge was built about 38 years ago and is the only road connection between Mombasa mainland and the island.It was built by the Japanese when the population of Mombasa was estimated at less than 200,000. Mombasa county Transport Executive Tawfiq Balala said the second bridge will help deal with traffic congestion experienced by motorists from the Northern Coast. Mr Balala point at least 70% of vehicles coming to the Central Business District come from Links Road where the bridge will land.