The construction industry in Tanzania has been mainly driven by construction companies due to increasing demand for urban accommodation.The industry contributed 13.6% to the country’s GDP last year compared to 2015 when the sector accounted for only 7.8% of the county’s GDP. Advent Construction Ltd is one of Tanzania’s largest and most recognized Civil and Building construction companies with over 100 years of experience in the industry. The company which was established in 1966, is a master builder that performs the main role of a main contractor for large projects in the country. Advent Construction Ltd has handled turnkey factory projects, turnkey residential towers, commercial towers and are working on building capacity in order to be able to take on large scale turnkey infrastructural projects. In additional to their traditional role of main contractor, Advent also has vast experience in the design build sector, offering solutions and sourcing technology using value engineering to meet and surpass the requirements of customers. Advent Construction Ltd’ clients have been defined by the company’s objectives, values and success. By fulfilling their ambitions and assisting their growth, the company has been able to grow and flourish throughout different market scenarios. The company has built proud and diverse portfolios of cutting edge factories, educational facilities, mining facilities, residential and hospitality facilities, shopping and commercial complexes and other versatile multi use projects that have transformed the country and region they live and operate in. Established 25 years ago from one small truck, Estim Construction has grown grown to become a large and well respected building and construction company across Africa providing services to both public and private sector. Growing to become one of East Africa’s largest and most respected building and civil construction companies, Estim attribute their success to being known for reliability, flexibility and a pursuit of project excellence. The company works in three main fields being civil, building and industrial construction and infrastructure. It prides its success with delivering large infrastructure assets in developing countries rests in strong supply chain management, stringent quality control and a reliable, skilled workforce. Estim has international benchmark in certification for Integrated Management System in compliance with IS0 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007. Becco Limited, a company established in the year 1972,with a vast 45 years of experience in civil works construction industry and specializing majorly in road construction works. Registered with Tanzania Contractor’s Registration Board (CRB), as a Class 1 (ONE) Civil Works Contractor in The United Republic of Tanzania, the company executes government and private owned projects in the capacities of main and sub-contractor. Becco Ltd has maintained an excellent record of success through their embedded culture of a win-win situation between them and the clients.Their engineers are mentored by senior staff and given sufficient time and resources to develop their skills in a friendly and supportive environment. In this way, we build technical expertise and deliver engineering excellence. The Company has a philosophy of investing in its people rather than in the ownership of plant and equipment. It is now running by third generation of Mr. Sarbjit Singh Bharya who was the founder of Bharya Engineering & Contracting Company Limited;Mr. Gurpal Singh Bharya(C.E.O) & Mr. Manraj Singh Bharya (Managing Director). Salem Construction Limited is a Tanzanian company established in Zanzibar since 1990 as a modest building contractors and has since diversified into all ends of the contracting industry and has spread out on all corners of the country. The company undertakes majorly construction works in areas such as Civil, Building, Electrical and Mechanical construction works. It has attained a statues of; Class II in Building, Class II in Electrical, and Class III in Civil. And has an intention to upgrade to Class I within 2011. Salem Construction has been involved in various construction projects such as construction of Residential buildings, Hotels and Resorts, Banks, Hospitals, Conservation and Renovation of old stone town buildings, Overhead lines, Electrical Substations, Telecommunication Towers, Drainage and Sewage, with their first major projects being the Stone Town streets paving and drainage and constructing a 25MW Emergency Power Plant for the Zanzibar Government. Salem Construction believes in taking up challenges, face competition and delivers on time and in a most cost effective manner. Their workforce comprises of well experience and qualified personnel with both administrative and technical competency, who work closely with both the Clients and Employees, to provide effective service to the project. The company also provide turn-key projects solutions where they undertake design and build projects in the field of both Engineering and Architecture for our clients with cost effective proposals. Nordic Construction Company Limited is a dynamic Tanzanian construction firm established in 2004 under all legal and regulations governing the construction Industry in Tanzania. Today the company is one of the fastest expanding company in building works and civil engineering contractors in the country, employing different people in various aspects of construction activities, and obediently conforming to ISO specification with the certification of relevant authorities like TBS. Nordic company is owned by four partners who have an extensive experience in contracting. In addition they deploy a team of highly experienced technical personnel including engineers, quantity surveyor, technicians and artisans in executing  projects. Nordic Construction Company Limited strongly believes in guiding principles for their employees and has developed our business unit mission and strategic objectives in line with the strategic role they play in the construction industry. Mohammedi Builders Ltd was established in 1999 as a Class VII Building Contractors and remarkably grew to become Class I Building Contractors in Tanzania offering civil engineering, construction and management services. The company aims to provide their clients with workmanship meeting international quality standards with its highly qualified local and international staff bringing together years of experience from all around the globe. Committed to quality, Mohammedi Builders incorporate skill-sets, fields of expertise and technical capacities. The company tries to incorporate most vital elements of construction under one roof, carrying out a greater proportion of the work at a central location in a more controlled environment. This has in return provided better results and substantial savings as well, for them and clients.