The modern day water drilling machines are the advanced forms of older manually operated water drilling machines that were hard to operate and required more labor and time to carry out the drilling tasks. Equipped with powerful motors these are quicker and highly efficient machinery designed for easy, consistent and precise drilling tasks. Efforts to apply drill to the work piece and carrying out drilling tasks are greatly reduced in today’s user friendly and automated drill machines. Lubricant reduces friction around any moving part. A schedule of good lubrication maintenance extends the life of the machines. You can also check for leak around the oil seals and ensure you have used the right lubricant. Getting a lubricant checked is a good way to diagnose problems with the machines. Vibration, shock, high temperature, friction and age all contribute to the breakdown of the parts in the machines There are many seals and filters in place of the machine to keep working parts clean and free of contamination. Seals should be inspected regularly to make sure they are in good condition. Filters should be inspected and changed regularly. Breathers should be kept clean to avoid creating a vacuum in the cab which will suck contamination in the cab. Machines should be stored in the shed or other building if possible. Exposure to wind and weather can lead to rust and rot, the machine should be run periodically if not in use. If you are using machinery that has components designed for sharpening, cutting, slicing or chopping, you need to ensure that these components maintain their sharpness. If you don’t perform routine maintenance on specific parts that need to sustain a particular sharpness, you could be putting production quality at a very high risk. The sharpness of a machine part is important because you need to make sure that cut materials are shaped correctly and accurately. This could include checking the sharpness of tools like end bills, drill bits, lathe tools and precision cutters. Also read:Water Borehole Services in Kenya The last thing that you want when it comes to your machine tool is to have a particular component or attachment out of alignment. This could greatly affect your work quality in a very negative way. To determine if your machine tool is properly aligned, simply perform a few test jobs and measure the resulting parts to inspect how the equipment is currently working. If the alignment is off, you will need to realign the machine in order to maintain accurate specifications. Fluids, tires, tracks and electrical systems are among the components that have to be checked for preventive measures. In some areas where there is insufficient water supply and non existence of machines spare parts such as cases in remote areas, Mr Robert Hather President Lifewater Drilling Technology advice that, driller should have the tools and spare parts with him that may be required to  avoid hiccups. Lifewater Drilling Technology designs a water well drilling system especially equipped to overcome the challenges found in developing countries. The company was formed to redesign, improve and get the rig into use. The cable tool drilling rig, LDT 360 is the product of this long journey. Good maintenance is important for workers safety. Large machinery maintenance can be dangerous. It is often conducted in close contact with running machinery. The conditions can be closely confined and unhealthy. Preventive maintenance and schedule equipment overhauls can diminish the chances of large machinery breakdown and thus lessen in onsite repairs.