Cadonà was founded in 1946 by Silvio Cadonà, focusing ever since on the production of block making machines. In time their portfolio of machines has widened and now they can offer a full range of small to medium machines to meet all production necessities plus provide versatility of project in order to meet specific production needs. For over 50 years they have been successfully exporting worldwide, especially thanks to their basic principle: to produce sturdy and reliable machines, simple and no-nonsense, built to last, easy to service and fitted to perform efficiently everywhere. This is now the third generation of Cadonà: as time goes by they keep pace with their clients’ needs and kindle their pride for quality products. Cadonà: since 1946 they endorse with their name the quality of their machines. Their mission is to produce and sell block making machines that meet their clients’ requirements and achieve that with the utmost care and dedication to quality.Their range of small to medium machines follows the basic rules of simplicity: of use, of maintenance and mould change. In order to minimize costs for the clients their machines are shipped almost ready to use and a good local mechanic can fix any problem. All their products are developed using advanced instruments and techniques, selecting only the best quality materials to ensure durability and long-lasting performance. Their products include, stationary block machines produce blocks delivering them on a pallet. Their points of strength are versatility and top quality of cement end-product. Egg-laying block making machines deliver directly on the concrete floor and need no stocking structure for blocks curing. Their point of strength are productivity and efficiency.
To compare their models use the page “ Machine choice” All Cadonà machines are made in Italy by their experienced workers to achieve excellence. In order to keep the quality system always updated Cadonà is certified ISO90001:2008 Their reputation is your protection.