Construction works the tallest building in Africa,- the Bank of Africa Tower, in Morocco is set to commence in November following a consortium comprising Belgian construction firm BESIX Group, Six Construct and TGCC  who received a contract to design and build the  250m-tall tower. Othmane Benjelloun, CEO of BMCE Bank of Africa who are sponsoring the project confirmed the reports and said construction will start in November 1.It will have 55 floors with a luxury hotel, offices, and apartments. “The Bank of Africa Tower will be an emblematic building for the country. I am proud to see BESIX participating in its construction in Morocco, where it has been a pleasure to work in recent years. In the case of the Bank of Africa Tower, we can count on our solid expertise in high-rise construction.”said CEO Othmane Benjelloun. Also Read:Tallest building in East and Central Africa opens for business Designed by Spanish architects Rafael de la-Hoz Arquitectos and Moroccan firm CHB Cabinet Hakim Benjelloun, the building aims for the highest international environmental standards to earn a certified LEED Gold and HQE rating. The project is being developed by FinanceCom Group’s subsidiary O TOWER.The China Railway Construction Corporation International (CRCCI), which was originally contracted to build the tower, will continue to accompany the newly contracted companies. The Bank of Africa Tower will be the icon of the new Bouregreg Valley development project, a major part of the program “Rabat Ville Lumiere, Capitale Marocaine de la Culture” (Rabat, the City of Light, the Moroccan Capital of Culture). Once structurally topped out, the 820-ft Bank of Africa Tower will not only be Morocco’s tallest building but also take the crown from Carlton Centre in Johannesburg, at 732 feet currently the tallest tower in Africa. Mr. Othmane Benjelloun estimated that the tower is expected be delivered on May 30, 2022. King Mohammed VI laid the first stone of the tower project in March last year when construction was originally launched. Based in Brussels, Belgium, BESIX Group operates in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania, primarily in the construction sector. Its achievements in this area include some of the most iconic buildings of recent decades, among them the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the tallest tower in the world, the Four Seasons Hotel in Manama, the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, the Méridien Hotel and Nile City complex in Cairo, and the CBX and Carpe Diem towers in Paris. BESIX knows Morocco well, having already completed the Tangier Med II port expansion and built the Mazagan Beach seaside resort. The Group’s responsiveness and its ability to quickly mobilize expertise and workforce are well known. 