BESIX Group S.A. (BESIX), Six Construct (a BESIX Group subsidiary) and TGCC have been awarded the contract to design and build the Bank of Africa Tower. Rising to 250 metres, it will claim the title of tallest tower in Morocco and in Africa. The tower is being developed by O TOWER, a subsidiary of FinanceCom Group. CRCCI will continue to provide support to the winning consortium. The works start on 1 November 2018, with 30 May 2022 as scheduled delivery date. Topping out at 250 metres, the Bank of Africa Tower will be the tallest building in Morocco and in Africa. The Tower will join the category of very high skyscrapers, with 55 floors hosting a luxury hotel, prestigious offices and luxury apartments. A viewing terrace is planned for the very top of the tower. The building, designed by architects Rafael de la Hoz and Hakim Benjelloun, will be certified LEED Gold and HQE for compliance with the highest international environmental quality standards. The innovations brought by the BESIX Engineering Department will also guarantee a building that is at the forefront of contemporary construction technology. The Bank of Africa Tower will form the high point in the recent Bouregreg Valley Development Project, which in turn is part of the programme “Rabat Ville Lumière, Capitale Marocaine de la Culture” (Rabat, the City of Light, the Moroccan Capital of Culture). This comprises major structural urban initiatives, including the Grand Théâtre de Rabat, the Maison des Arts et de la Culture (House of Arts and Culture) Based in Brussels, Belgium, BESIX Group operates in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Oceania, primarily in the construction sector. Its achievements in this area include some of the most iconic buildings of recent decades, among them the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the tallest tower in the world, the Four Seasons Hotel in Manama, the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, the Méridien Hotel and Nile City complex in Cairo, and the CBX and Carpe Diem towers in Paris. BESIX knows Morocco well, having already completed the Tangier Med II port expansion and built the Mazagan Beach seaside resort. The Group’s responsiveness and its ability to quickly mobilize expertise and workforces are well known.