Uganda has received a loan worth US $212m from the Chinese government to boost the rural electrification programme. The Government’s plan under the programme is to increase the rural electrification access rate to 51 per cent by 2030 and 100 per cent by 2040. According to the Chinese ambassador to Uganda, Zheng Zhuqian at the signing of loan agreement, the project of bridging the demand supply balance gap through the accelerated Rural Electrification Programme is a good example for China-Uganda Economic Cooperation considering Uganda is one of the countries with the lowest electricity rate in Africa The loan will enable Government to accelerate the access to clean and modern electricity while encouraging growth in demand through the electrification of all unserved sub-counties nationwide Meanwhile, the project will cover the distribution network infrastructure construction of the government and the surrounding areas of 287 sub-counties in Uganda. According to the minister of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Mr. Matia Kasaija, this financing is timely as it will enable the Government of Uganda to construct 3839 km of medium voltage networks, 5921 km of low voltage networks and install and commission 3403 distribution transfers; install and connect 168,335 single phase consumers and 4,254 three phase consumers. Once the project is complete, the rural electrification coverage will be greatly improved, and the lives of local residents will also be improved. Also read:Uganda seeks US $4.5bn for electricity transmission, distribution networks Additionally, the government plans to extend clean and modern electricity to all citizens by 2040. To achieve this, it aims to connect at least 30% of all citizens by 2020. Mr. Kasaija further appreciated China’s technical and financial support to Uganda mainly in the Energy Sector specifically the financing to Karuma and Isimba Hydropower projects as well as the Associated Transmission Lines, the Works and Transport mainly the Kampala-Entebbe Airport Expressway and the Upgrading and Expansion of the Entebbe International Airport phase 1 project.