Originally the company was known as Cooke, Troughton & Simms, which was formed in 1937, to distribute survey products and survey instruments in South Africa. It changed its name to Vickers Instruments in 1956 and at the time was owned by Vickers PLC (U.K.) until 1983 when Vickers disinvested and the company was sold to local shareholders – Hudaco – J.S.E. listed company and since been a division of Rutherford. The company distributes Ruide, South, GeoMax (survey equipment and accessories) and Troxler (nuclear gauges) throughout the Southern African region. They are exclusive dealers for the above products since 1970. The company has three branches – Johannesburg, Durban and Cape Town. The Sales Personnel are experienced Surveyors. The Total Staff complement in Rutherford is over 200 members. The Company has fully equipped Workshop with factory-trained Technicians. The Company is accredited for ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 and is a Level 4 Contributor to the Broad Based BEE. At GeoMax they truly believe in what they are doing. They are a young team that is driven to always reach the top, together they form the core of GeoMax. When working for them, you will have the chance to experience: Globally connected Even though GeoMax’s headquarters is in Switzerland, their team is spread over the entire world. This enables them to not only fully understand the needs of their customers but also to ensure proximity. The GeoMax community is well known for its unique team spirit. They believe in having a close relationship with their customers and also with their colleagues; it is the key to success. Engagement to meet customer expectations Every employee at GeoMax highly engages to fully meet the expectations of their customer. It’s the people behind GeoMax that form the core and reason for success. Outstanding products Their products are outstanding in terms of ease of use as well as their excellent quality. This is only possible by constant research and development by their GeoMax team. Part of Hexagon they share a common vision with their parent company to deliver actionable information through technologies that empower customers to reach their full potential and shape smart change across diverse industry landscapes. Established in 1995, Ruide Surveying Instrument Co., Ltd is an R&D and production-oriented enterprise focusing on technology-intensive mechanical and optical-electrics measuring instruments. Aimed to meet a wide range of precise and cost-effective requirements, Ruide offers a complete product line of total station, electronic theodolites, hand-held laser distance meter, digital level, etc. Most recognized for providing quality and liable instruments, Ruide is committed to provide dependable and economic solutions and services to surveying industry Established in 1989 and headquartered in Guangzhou, South Surveying & Mapping Instrument Co., Ltd. is a professional and leading enterprise in the surveying industry in Mainland China, whose five affiliated factories specialize in R&D and manufacturing and selling nine kinds of surveying products, including Total Station, Electronic Theodolite, Electronic Distance Meter, Automatic Level, Laser Level, Reflector Prisms, surveying accessories, GPS receivers, Mapping Software, etc. With the keen dedication and customer focus of over 4,000 employees, South has expanded its seamless coverage of 30 provincial branches and over 150 municipal offices as well as hundreds of authorized dealers in China, which establishes a close-linked distribution network at a national level. Plus the annual output and sales of 35,000 pieces of Total Stations, 30,000 pieces of Electronic Theodolites, 15,000sets of GPS receiver and 3,000 sets of software, all of which adds up to a powerful force capable of serving the customers every need, moreover, their expectations. Since 1958, Troxler has been the worldwide leader in precision quality control and measurement equipment for the highway and construction industries. They are dedicated to providing full service, training, and maintenance support for all their products through their international sales and support offices in the US, Canada, Germany and through their 50 distributors around the world. Their mission is to be a customer focused innovative company that consistently supplies high quality products and services that exceed their customers’ expectations.