Construction works on phase one of US $96m Umgeni Lifestyle and Deco Park in South Africa nears completion with a grand opening set for November. Stephen Lawson, Eris development manager confirmed the reports and said the development will be the first of its kind in the region to have such a commercial concept that presents a safe landscaped zone with green spaces and walkways across 135 000m² of centrally located land, which will become the final piece of the Umgeni precinct Masterplan. Also read:South Africa to reduce land prices to accommodate social housing He added that the unique concept in the development aims at formalizing the vibrant node which offers high-spec  infrastructure, management association, a ‘green’ environment, and a comprehensive framework of complementary services, which allows it to stand out from the crowd. “When you drive along the Springfield and Umgeni industrial areas, there is a significant amount of clutter with haphazard businesses competing against each other. “We are proud to bring this exceptional opportunity to KwaZulu-Natal and pioneer a commercial property offering of international standards,” He added. The park will allow businesses to lease a facility designed in accordance with their specifications and will provide them with the much-needed space to house their showroom, office and distribution within one site. Businesses that offer anything from home improvement product and appliances, buildings supplies, furniture, flooring and blinds to outdoor life products, call centers, offices and motor vehicle dealerships will find this space beneficial. The development will have easy access to the N2, N3 and M19 within the busy Springfield node; and is only 5 km from Central Durban, 10 km from the harbor and 25 km King Shaka international Airport. There is a trend forming globally where mixed-use buildings provide a range of functions comprising of showroom, office, and distribution and lifestyle facilities. The development’s completion is expected to add immense value to the Umgeni area and initiate the start of a new commercial property offering. 