Improvon Group, one of Africa’s most established logistics and warehouse property specialists, and Actis, a leading investor in growth markets, have launched US $110m Nairobi Gate Industrial Park project. Located off the Eastern Bypass, this 103-acre development will offer state-of-the-art industrial and logistics accommodation for local and international companies, with quick access to key logistics and transport hubs such as the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and the Inland Container Depot. Nairobi Gate brings a unique “build to suit” concept to Nairobi that has been necessitated by the demand for modern, flexible and efficient warehousing facilities. It offers flexibility and scalability for occupiers’ operational needs. According to Stefano Contardo, the CEO of Improvon, Phase 1 of Nairobi Gate will span 103 acres and will consist of ultra-modern logistics, warehousing and distribution centres, bringing a ‘build to suit’ concept to Nairobi in response to the demand for grade A flexible spaces. Also Read:Nairobi gate industrial park introduces next level logistics to Kenya “In line with modern trends it will integrate corporate offices, with excellent access, wide roads and turning circles that can accommodate interlink trucks, generous loading facilities and the highest standard of security, all set in a park-like environment. Nairobi Gate will be most suited to light industry, warehousing and distribution centres and offers power supply, adequate water storage, maximum volumetric capacity, wide column grids and generous parking,” he added. The Nairobi Gate development will offer the latest in green design and sustainability practices that optimize natural light and harness temperature regulation and water reticulation, making it cost effective and less impactful on the environment over the long term. The launch was graced by the presence of the Industrialization, Trade and Cooperatives Cabinet Secretary Honorable Peter Munya who assured the developers of the Kenyan government’s commitment in ensuring an enabling environment for investors in the industrialization sector. “We want to ensure that Kenya does even better in the next world rankings with regards to development of the industrialization sector; hence it is important to support and encourage such projects. My presence in this launch is an indication of approval and support of this project from the highest authority in the land,” he said. Mr. Michael Turner, Director of Actis also commented that, South Africa, Kenya and Zambia are key distribution hubs to the rest of the continent. “East Africa is especially experiencing strong consumer demand and infrastructure development on the back of a resilient and diversified economy, which underscores the case for logistics and warehouse developments,” he added The Improvon Group has developed and tenanted in excess of 10, 000, 000 ft2 of logistics properties for use by warehousing and distribution operators across Africa. Actis’ investment in Improvon will allow it to accelerate its growth across sub-Saharan Africa markets, starting with Nairobi Gate Industrial Park. Phase 1 of Nairobi Gate will be complete in the second quarter of 2019. 