Coote Engineering Ltd. have been designing and manufacturing steel moulds for precast concrete and precast concrete machinery market since 1977. With this wealth of experience they can offer optimum solutions for the precast concrete manufacturing requirements of the worldwide market. Coote Engineering is a privately owned family run company with a global reputation for providing products of the highest quality, both in design and manufacture. Their objective is to provide products with the highest standards of customer back up in both technical and service support. The company utilize both 2D and 3D CAD design coupled with CNC manufacturing facilities to ensure that their products, from either their standard range or custom designs are always manufactured to the highest standards. All their equipment carries the CE mark were applicable. Coote Engineering offers an extensive range of standard products to meet the demands of the marketplace. In addition to this, their team of qualified engineers are able to provide a specialist custom design and manufacture service from their headquarters in Northern Ireland. The company continually invests in up-to-date design and manufacturing processes which gives a complete “In-House” manufacturing capability. All machinery is manufactured from start to finish in the companies factory. Coote Engineering will liaise with other manufacturers, if required, to provide a complete package of products to suit their customer’s requirements. As a world leading design and manufacturing company, it is their aim to provide their customers with the correct product choice and best possible solutions to meet your specific needs. They couple this with a commitment to provide ongoing spares and technical backup, which is second to none. This exceptional level of service provides the reassurance of knowing that in choosing Coote Engineering Ltd as your partner you have made the correct choice! When you choose a Coote Engineering solution you can be sure you have invested in a modern, versatile system that will repay you many times over. It is faster in production and requires less floor space than any other system. It is safe, foolproof and virtually maintenance free. With the Coote Engineering system it will allow you to extend your product range easily and economically while maintaining high quality in product standards. Coote Engineering have an unrivaled reputation for designing and manufacturing standard and bespoke steel moulds for precast concrete products. Being an industry leader in the worldwide steel mould market, Coote Engineering offer their unrivaled experience in the manufacturing of steel moulds to the customer. From standard products to bespoke steel moulds for specialized precast products, Coote Engineering have the global reputation for unrivaled quality and superior mould design.